Title: 2606.22311v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.22311v1

Published Time: Tue, 23 Jun 2026 01:57:25 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
1

# Semantic Non -Assembly: Privacy by Architectural Inertness Under 

# Component Exposure 

## Sam Ryan 

Novel Systems Engineering LLC 

Portland, OR, United States 

sam@novelsystems.me 

ORCID: 0009 -0000 -1862 -0417 

ABSTRACT 

Existing privacy frameworks emphasize confidentiality, access control, appropriate information flow, or 

statistical disclosure limitation. We introduce a complementary class of privacy guarantee (Semantic Non -

Assembly) in which privacy is characterized not by the difficulty of achieving exposure but by the 

information yield of exposure when it occurs. SNA prevents evaluation of a designated predicate by 

preventing any sub -threshold coalition from assembling a sufficient assignment to its input domain. An 

ar chitecture satisfies Semantic Non -Assembly when no coalition of fewer than a defined threshold of 

components can assemble such an assignment: complete exposure and decryption of any sub -threshold 

component yields no actionable data. In the base protocol, t he guarantee is structural: it operates through 

architecture, not policy, and its privacy properties degrade predictably under component compromise rather 

than collapsing at a single point. The reference instantiation combines this structural guarantee wit h audited 

organizational constraints, as characterized in Appendix A. This paper formalizes the guarantee and 

establishes four ProVerif -verified properties: Device Non -Correlation, Registry Observer Non -Identification, 

Submission Server Blindness, and Acti ve Defense Gate correctness, the first three through a two -channel 

provenance architecture. The Birthmark Standard instantiates the guarantee on constrained capture hardware, 

demonstrating deployability where ZK -based approaches are computationally infeasi ble. All formal 

properties and scope limitations are documented in Appendix A. 

CCS Concepts: • Security and privacy → Privacy -preserving protocols (Primary); Formal methods and 

theory of security ; Privacy protections ; Information flow control .

Additional Keywords and Phrases: semantic non -assembly, privacy -by -design, data minimization, 

architectural privacy, ProVerif, media provenance, Birthmark Standard 

ACM Reference Format: 

Sam Ryan. 2026. Semantic Non -Assembly: Privacy by Architectural Inertness Under Component Exposure. 

ACM Trans. Priv. Secur. 1, 1, Article 1 (January 2026), 31 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX 

## 1 INTRODUCTION 

Component compromise is no longer an exceptional event. Credential theft, insider access, and infrastructure breach 

occur at sufficient frequency that designing systems around their prevention is insufficient. A system whose privacy 

guarantee degrades to z ero on single -component exposure has, in practice, no privacy guarantee at all. The prevailing 

frameworks (confidentiality, access control, information flow control, statistical disclosure limitation) address how to 

restrict access to sensitive information that exists somewhere in the system. None addresses the case where the armor 

has been pierced. All assume a store to protect, and all fail when that store is exposed. What is needed is a class of 

system that concedes nothing on component exposure, because there is nothing to concede. 

A provenance architecture illustrates the requirement: a device must be linkable to authenticated content, but only 

under specific authorized conditions. The privacy challenge is not to hide the linkage but to ensure no component 

accumulates sufficient inf ormation to perform it without authorization. This paper asks: can a system be architected 

such that complete, authorized exposure of any single component (including full decryption of its contents) yields no 

information sufficient to execute the target id entification function? In a threat environment where component exposure 

is probable rather than merely possible, the yield of exposure is a more actionable security property than its difficulty. 

Semantic Non -Assembly is the class of guarantee that answers this question affirmatively. 

The contributions of this paper are: 2

(1) Semantic Non -Assembly as a formalized class of privacy guarantee: a structural property characterizing privacy 

by the information yield of component exposure, not the difficulty of achieving it, distinct from confidentiality, 

access control, informati on flow control, and statistical disclosure limitation (Section 1.1, Section 4). 

(2) A two -channel provenance architecture instantiating the guarantee, with executable ProVerif proofs establishing 

Device Non -Correlation (Property A), Registry Observer Non -Identification (Property B), and Submission Server 

Blindness (Property C). Prope rties A, B, and C are mechanized in ProVerif; the reference instantiation uses ECIES 

(asymmetric IND -CCA2) for credential encryption, and the ProVerif model directly reflects this deployment. 

Active defense gate properties (Property D: gate correspondence, purge -state secrecy, chain dependency, chain 

integrity, and opaque index secrecy) are formally verified in BirthmarkD.pv and documented in Appendix A.4 

(all properties scoped in Appendix A). Table 3 (Section 7.2) documents what each component compromise y ields 

and does not yield; the guarantee degrades predictably under compromise rather than collapsing at a single point. 

(3) A formal characterization of the privacy cost of adding forensic capability: the cost is bounded, predictable, and 

documented in Section 5. 

(4) The Birthmark Standard as a reference instantiation demonstrating deployability on constrained capture hardware 

(Section 6). Full implementation details are documented in the extended technical report [4]. 

1.1 Semantic Non -Assembly 

SNA prevents evaluation of a designated predicate by preventing any sub -threshold coalition from assembling a 

sufficient assignment to its input domain. The term “semantic” here refers to the meaning level of information (what 

the data enables with respect to f) rather than to semantic security in the cryptographic sense. Formally: an architecture 

satisfies semantic non -assembly with respect to predicate f and threshold t if no coalition of fewer than t+1 components 

can assemble a state from which f is comp utable. A sufficient state is any combination of information fields whose 

values together enable execution of f; semantic non -assembly requires that no sub -threshold coalition can assemble 

such a combination. For device attribution in media provenance, f i s the function that links a specific capture device 

to specific authenticated content; a sufficient state is any combination of device identity and content record that enables 

execution of that linkage. The threshold t formalizes the adversary assumption: an architecture satisfying semantic 

non -assembly at t=1 remains private under any single -component compromise; larger t tolerates broader coordinated 

compromise. Equivalently: complete exposure and full decryption of any component below threshold t yields no 

actionable data with respect to f, because the sufficient state for f cannot be assembled from that component’s contents 

alone. 

The mechanism is architectural rather than procedural. A policy prohibition on co -locating sufficient information is 

not Semantic Non -Assembly; it is an access control rule applied to a system that has the capability to violate its privacy 

obligations. Sem antic Non -Assembly requires that the architecture make co -location structurally impossible below 

the compromise threshold by design, not just by trust. This distinction matters for the adversary model: policy -based 

separation fails under insider threat or operator compromise; structural separation fails only under coordinated multi -

component compromise at or above threshold t. 

Because SNA is defined at the level of predicate computability over a distributed information schema (rather than 

access restriction, flow control, or inference bounds) it is distinct from each major existing privacy mechanism: 

Confidentiality restricts who can access information that exists in one place. Semantic Non -Assembly prevents 

the sufficient information set from existing in one place. A system with strong confidentiality can still be 

vulnerable to single -component compromise if that c omponent holds sufficient information; Semantic Non -

Assembly removes the sufficient -information set from the single -component threat surface entirely. 

Access control mediates operations on existing stores. Semantic Non -Assembly eliminates the store. Access 

control failure (misconfigured permissions, insider threat, key compromise) yields the information regardless. 

Semantic Non -Assembly failure requires simultaneous failure of t+1 components. 

Information flow control restricts propagation paths for data that exists at a source, using runtime policy 

enforcement or label -based tracking. SNA operates at design time: no component ever holds the sufficient 

information set, so there is no flow to restrict or label. An IFC policy can be bypassed under insider threat or 

misconfiguration; structural SNA cannot be bypassed below threshold t because the target state is architecturally 

absent, not just prohibited. 

Statistical disclosure limitation bounds what can be inferred from released data by adding noise, suppression, 

or generalization. The object of protection is a dataset that exists somewhere. SNA prevents the sufficient 3

information set from existing at any sub -threshold component: an adversary with single -component access has no 

dataset to apply inference to, not just bounded inference from one. 

> Data minimization mitigates the consequences of exposure by reducing what exists to be taken. SNA prevents the exposure from
> being actionable regardless of what exists: it is a defense layer that operates before damage needs to be calculated, not a t ighter
> specification of minimization policy.

The class of guarantee applies to systems where (a) the target identification function is defined and bounded, (b) the 

system designer controls which components hold which information fields, and (c) the privacy requirement is that the 

function be performa ble only under authorized conditions, not that it be permanently prevented. Provenance 

architectures are the canonical case: device -to -content linkage is the system’s purpose, and privacy requires that 

linkage be authorizable but not passively available. 

1.2 Minimal Instantiation: Federated Identity Verification 

A federated identity system must solve a constrained verification problem: confirm that a user holds a valid credential, 

without revealing to the service which user it is, and without revealing to the identity provider which service the user 

is accessing. Both directions of the correlation must be blocked simultaneously. Blocking only one yields a system 

where either the identity provider accumulates a map of user activity across services, or the service accumulates a map 

of identities behind sessions. Neit her partial solution satisfies the privacy requirement. 

Four parties: an identity provider (Party A, holding user credentials), a service provider (Party B, holding session 

records), a routing authority (Party C, holding the mapping from opaque destination tokens to service endpoints), and 

a verification exchan ge. When a user requests access, they encrypt their credential under Party A’s key and send the 

ciphertext to the exchange, along with an opaque destination token pre -registered with Party C. The exchange routes 

the encrypted credential to Party A, which d ecrypts it, verifies membership, and returns a signed authorization. Party 

A receives no information about the destination. The exchange passes the opaque token to Party C, which resolves the 

endpoint and forwards the session token to Party B. Party B sees an authorized token with no recoverable user identity. 

The exchange sees an encrypted credential it cannot decrypt and an opaque token it cannot resolve. No party ever 

holds both a plaintext user identity and a service access record simultaneously. 

After the session completes, f(user, service) = “did this user access this service?” is not computable from any single 

party’s state. Party A holds credential records with no associated service destinations. Party B holds session records 

with no associated user identities. Party C holds destination mappings with no associated credentials or session 

records. The exchange holds neither surface in decryptable form. Full exposure of any component yields no actionable 

data with respect to f. Component contents a re not obscured; they are simply insufficient. 

Access control explains why Party A should not log which services users access. Information flow control explains 

why user identities should not propagate to Party B. Neither framework can state the zero -yield property. Both 

presuppose a store to protect o r a flow to restrict. The sufficient state here (the pairing of a plaintext user identity with 

a service access record) never exists at any component. SNA describes the class of systems structured so that no 

component ever holds it. 

The threshold parameter follows directly. At t=1 the base architecture holds: no single -component compromise reveals 

the user -service pairing. Collusion between any two parties is the t=2 failure mode, requiring coordinated access across 

organizational bou ndaries. A back -lookup extension enabling authorized disclosure under legal process follows the 

same four -party structure as Section 5, with the privacy cost bounded identically. 

1.3 Scope 

The architecture verifies that content originated from a registered capture device. It does not verify scene truthfulness, 

content accuracy, staging authenticity, or editorial decisions. Privacy guarantees are computational rather than 

information -theoreti c. Section 4.1 defines the adversary model precisely, and Section 7.1 characterizes the tradeoff 

relative to ZK -proof approaches. This paper establishes the SNA definition, the channel separation proofs (Properties 

A, B, C), and the architecture independen tly. Active defense gate proofs (Property D) are documented in Appendix 

A.4. Hardware benchmarks and the full governance specification are documented in the extended technical report [4], 

which is an arXiv preprint not independently peer -reviewed at time o f this submission. 

## 2 RELATED WORK 

Privacy engineering frameworks provide the landscape against which Semantic Non -Assembly is positioned. 

Confidentiality and access control are foundational [7]. Contextual integrity (Nissenbaum [14]) frames privacy as 4

appropriate information flow relative to context norms. SNA is distinct: contextual integrity asks whether a given flow 

is appropriate relative to the norms of its context; SNA asks whether the sufficient state for a target function can be 

assembled at all , independent of whether any individual flow is norm -violating. A system can satisfy contextual 

integrity in every flow and still fail SNA if a single component accumulates a sufficient state through individually 

appropriate flows. Differential privacy (Dw ork et al. [15]) provides formal guarantees for statistical data releases. k -

anonymity and its successors (l -diversity, t -closeness) address quasi -identifier -based re -identification in tabular data. 

Purpose limitation under GDPR and similar frameworks impo ses policy -level constraints on information use. None 

of these frameworks addresses the structural prevention of sufficient -information assembly in systems where the 

identification function is authorized but must not be passively available. 

Embedded Provenance. C2PA embeds cryptographically signed manifests in media files [1], but social media 

platforms routinely strip metadata through compression and format conversion, severing provenance at 

distribution. Storing verification records externally makes survival of in -band metadata loss a structural property 

rather than a platform dependency. The failure modes differ: C2PA’s provenance integrity depends on metadata 

survival through the distribution chain; this architecture’s privacy properties depend on audited co nstraint 

preservation across independently operated infrastructure components. 

Zero -Knowledge Proofs for Authentication. ZK -SNARKs and ZK -STARKs enable proof of credential 

possession without credential disclosure [8]. Applied to device authentication, they allow a capture device to 

prove membership in a set of registered devices without identifying which member it is. The formal privacy 

guarantees are strong: correlation is prevented even against an adversary who compromises the credential 

validator. The deployment barrier is computational: ZK proof generation on ARM -class embedded h ardware 

requires seconds to minutes per proof at realistic constraint counts [5], incompatible with capture -path latency 

requirements. This architecture targets the deployment contexts where this barrier makes ZK -proof approaches 

impractical. The failure m odes differ: ZK systems rely primarily on computational hardness assumptions; this 

architecture relies on continuously audited structural constraints combined with standard cryptographic 

assumptions. Both are reasonable under their respective deployment co nditions. 

Consortium Blockchains. Substrate -based permissioned blockchains provide controlled validator sets without 

cryptocurrency exposure [3]. We use a consortium blockchain as an append -only registry for content hashes, 

providing tamper -resistance and public verifiability without tok en economics. 

Split -Knowledge Systems and Privacy Engineering. The principle that no single party should hold sufficient 

information to perform a sensitive operation is established in information security through dual -control and split -

knowledge architectures [7], used in financial institutions, key management syste ms, and cryptographic escrow. 

A split -knowledge system partitions an element x ∈ X across shares. An SNA system partitions X itself across 

components, such that no sub -threshold coalition holds a subset of fi elds sufficient to assemble a state from which 

f is computable. More precisely: split -knowledge architectures partition a single algebraic object (a key or secret 

value) into shares distributed across parties, such that reconstruction requires a threshold of shares. The object of 

protection is that algebraic element; the mechanism is threshold reconstruction. Semantic Non -Assembly operates 

on a typed information schema rather than a single algebraic object: the object of protection is a predicate’s input 

do main (the set of information fields whose combination constitutes a sufficient input to the identification 

function), and the mechanism is preventing that domain from being assembled at any component below threshold 

t. A threshold scheme over a device cred ential and a content hash would combine them into a shared secret 

requiring t -of -n parties to reconstruct; Semantic Non -Assembly ensures the two fields are never co -located, 

making the threshold reconstruction question moot. The distinction matters under i nsider threat: a t -of -n threshold 

scheme fails when t colluding parties reconstruct the secret; Semantic Non -Assembly fails only when t+1 

components are simultaneously compromised, and even then the adversary must assemble the sufficient set across 

compone nts rather than reconstruct a pre -existing value. 

Conventional data minimization seeks to reduce the amount of retained information. Semantic Non -Assembly instead 

minimizes the information available to any architectural component with respect to a designated identification 

function. The objective is struc tural absence of any sufficient state from which the function is computable, independent 

of record size. In this sense, Semantic Non -Assembly operationalizes data minimization at the level of predicate 

computability rather than record size. The GDPR’s data minimization principle (Article 5(1)(c)) requires that personal 

data be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary; SNA operationalizes this as a structural property rather 

than a policy constraint, ensuring that no component accumulates data be yond what its function requires. Applying 

these established principles to public media provenance is, to our knowledge, not previously described in the literature. 5

The resulting system is openly queryable while remaining semantically inert to observers who do not already possess 

the underlying media, all within the computational budget of a camera image signal processor (ISP). 

Multi -Party Computation and t -Privacy. The zero -yield -at -threshold property recalls t -privacy in multi -party 

computation [13]: in a t -private MPC protocol, no coalition of fewer than t+1 parties can learn anything beyond 

what their inputs and outputs reveal. The distinction from Semantic Non -Assembly is structural. MPC t -privacy 

operates on computational protocols that distribute shares of input values across parties, such that no sub -threshold 

coalition can reconstruct the function’s inputs from its share s; the object of protection is the computational secrecy 

of input values during protocol execution. Semantic Non -Assembly operates on information architecture: the 

object of protection is the assembly of a sufficient state across components, and the guaran tee holds independent 

of any protocol executed over that architecture. A system can satisfy SNA without executing any MPC protocol; 

an MPC protocol does not automatically confer SNA on the infrastructure it runs on. The two properties are 

orthogonal rather than hierarchical. 

## 3 ARCHITECTURE 

3.1 System Overview 

The architecture involves four parties: a capture device that generates a content hash and a device credential; a 

credential validator (an authority that can confirm whether a credential corresponds to a registered device); a 

submission server that receive s device submissions and routes credentials to the validator; and a verification registry 

(a consortium blockchain) that stores content hashes for public query. 

Device registration is a prerequisite outside the scope of this architecture; credential provisioning is deployment -

specific and may involve manufacturer enrollment, device initialization protocols, or similar mechanisms. The 

architecture defines what a cr edential validator must do (accept a submitted credential and return a pass/fail decision) 

without prescribing how enrollment is managed. 

No single party possesses both a device identifier and a content hash for the same submission; the formal privacy 

properties in Section 4 formalize this guarantee for the base architecture.   

> Figure 1. System architecture overview. The Consortium Node (yellow) houses the Submission Server and Blockchain
> Registry. The Submission Server routes the Validator Certificate (credential channel) to the Credential Validator and
> the Blockchain Submission Packet (content channel) to the registry. The Credential Validator returns a Signed
> Commitment over the Media Record Hash. The Governing Server (green) issues control signals to both the Submission
> Server and Credential Validator. The Media Verifying End User queries the public registry directly.

3.2 Data Channels 6

The architecture separates each submission into two independent data channels. 

The content channel carries: a hash of the media content (H_content), derived by the capture device at the time 

of capture using any hash function that produces a stable output from the raw media data; an optional modification 

level indicator describing post -capture process ing; and optional hashed metadata (timestamp, location) that 

enables selective disclosure without revealing values on -chain. 

The credential channel carries: an encrypted device token (the device’s hardware credential, encrypted under 

key material held exclusively by the credential validator); and a key reference identifying which decryption key 

table and index the validator should use. The base arch itecture uses ECIES: during device provisioning, the 

credential validator generates a key pair and loads the public key onto the device. At capture time, the device 

encrypts its credential under the validator’s public key. Only the va lidator holds the private key and can decrypt. 

The device transmits both channels to the submission server in a single packet. The submission server separates 

them: it routes the encrypted credential to the validator and retains the content hash. The valid ator decrypts the 

credential, verifies device membership, and returns a signed approval. The validator never receives or observes 

the content hash; the submission server never decrypts the credential. This channel separation is the structural 

basis for the privacy properties proven in Section 4. 

Table 1. Two -channel packet structure. Each channel carries only hash -substituted or encrypted data; neither 

channel individually constitutes a sufficient information set for device -to -content attribution.          

> Content Channel Credential Channel
> Carries h(media); h(metadata) [optional] Enc(device_id, k_v); key_reference
> Does not carry media content; device identifier content hash; plaintext device_id
> Routed to Registry (public) Credential Validator (private)
> Sufficient for attribution No No

Table 2. Single -channel possession is insufficient for attribution. Each party’s observable information is 

semantically non -assembled: no party holds a sufficient information set for the target identification function.           

> Party Observes Cannot determine
> Registry observer Content hashes; timestamps Which device produced which content
> Submission server Both channels in transit device_id (token encrypted under k_v)
> Credential Validator Enc(device_id, k_v) Which content was authenticated
> Adversary controlling one channel One attribution surface The other; correlation requires both simultaneously

3.3 Registry Storage 

The system never receives, stores, or processes media content at any stage. Once the validator’s approval is received, 

the submission server posts to the registry: the content hash, the approval signature, and a posting timestamp rounded 

to a privacy -prese rving interval. The registry record contains no device identifier, no manufacturer identifier, and no 

information that allows an observer to determine which device produced which content. 

A consortium blockchain is used rather than a simpler append -only transparency log (such as Certificate Transparency) 

because append -only ledgers alone do not protect against compelled censorship. A single -operator transparency log 

can be compelled to remo ve or suppress specific entries by any locally enforceable legal order. A consortium 

blockchain distributes validation across multiple independent organizations: removing a record requires compelling a 

threshold of validators simultaneously, across organiz ational and jurisdictional boundaries. The strength of this 

property depends on the anti -concentration controls described in Section 7.2; a validator set with shared ownership or 

common legal jurisdiction would degrade it. For journalism and public -interes t media contexts, where compelled 

removal of authentication records is a credible operational threat, this censorship resistance property is a design 

requirement rather than an incidental feature. 

3.4 Verification 

Public verification requires only the media content. A verifier computes the content hash locally and queries the 

registry directly. The registry returns a record if one exists. No subscription, credential, or trusted intermediary is 7

required. The verifier learns whether the content was authenticated by a registered device; they learn nothing about 

which device. 

The registry is non -self -describing and semantically inert to observers who do not already possess candidate media. 

The registry intentionally does not support attribution search, reverse lookup, or photographer enumeration. Querying 

the registry yields co ntent hashes with no attributable metadata. 

## 4 THREAT MODEL AND FORMAL PRIVACY PROPERTIES 

Semantic Non -Assembly is enforced through intentional context blindness: each component is structurally limited to 

observing only the attribution -surface fragment required for its function, making the sufficient information set 

unassemblable below the comp romise threshold. Privacy holds through structural non -assembly, not through operator 

trust. Channel separation structurally prevents any single component from holding both a device identifier and a 

content hash; where protocol -level separation is insuffic ient (principally, the prohibition on maintaining device -to -

token mapping records outside the system), compliance is enforced through publicly auditable consortium governance 

rather than through the protocol itself. Property A (Device Non -Correlation) is e stablished by an executable ProVerif 

proof. Properties B and C (Registry Observer Non -Identification and Submission Server Blindness) are verified by 

observational equivalence in BirthmarkBC.pv, using the same biprocess technique as Property A. Active defe nse gate 

properties (Property D) are formally verified in BirthmarkD.pv and documented in Appendix A.4. All properties are 

scoped in Appendix A. 

4.1 Adversary Model 

Network Adversary (A_NET). Controls network infrastructure between system components, with the ability to 

intercept, modify, replay, and inject messages on public channels. Submission servers may be compromised: a 

compromised server can inspect routed data but cannot decrypt encry pted credential tokens (only the credential 

validator holds decryption keys) and cannot forge validator signatures. Up to 33% of registry validator nodes may 

be compromised; honest validators retain the majority required for recor d finalization above this threshold. 

Simultaneous compromise of multiple independent components requires coordinated compromise across 

organizational boundaries and is outside the assumed adversary model. 

Liveness under sub -threshold non -participation is handled by the consortium governance layer through validator 

removal, not by the consensus protocol alone. Governance removal is a prospective cleanup action, not a recovery 

mechanism. During the interval b etween a validator becoming non -participating and governance removal completing, 

submissions continue to finalize as long as the remaining honest validators exceed the 2/3 threshold; the non -

participating validator’s absence reduces the safety margin but d oes not interrupt service. Submissions requiring dual -

approval from a non -participating server are queued or rerouted to an alternate submission server per deployment 

policy. 

Hardware Adversary (A_HW). Has physical access to capture devices, with the ability to attempt credential 

extraction from hardware secure elements via invasive physical techniques. Such techniques are costly, time -

intensive, and affect only individual devices, making bulk compromi se economically infeasible under current 

secure element certification standards (EAL5+). Forging device credentials is also within scope. Replicating 

manufacturing -calibrated hardware fingerprints requires physical access to manuf acturing equipment; no 

practical attack is publicly known under current manufacturing assumptions, though this is an empirical 

observation rather than a formal bound. Successful extraction affects only the compromised device and any key 

table entries it sh ares with other devices. 

Privacy Adversary (A_PRIV). Seeks to correlate specific capture devices to specific verified content records. 

Capabilities include: observation of all public registry records; monitoring of network traffic including timing 

and packet sizes; access to any single system component (va lidator, submission server, or registry) but not 

multiple components simultaneously. Cannot break AES -256 encryption or SHA -256 collision resistance. Legal 

compulsion or coercion of individual operators is an out -of -scope threat. Single -operator compulsion is addressed 

through mandatory governance removal rather than protocol -level resistance; simultaneous multi -jurisdictional 

compulsion requires the same coordinated multi -component access as other out -of -scope attacks. The archit ecture 

requires that credential validators and submission servers operate under continuously audited structural 

constraints whose satisfaction is a deployment requirement enforced through governance rather than through the 

protocol itself. The constraints are publicly auditable through the consortium governance layer: validator node 

operators are publicly registered, enabling inspection of the validator set for shared ownership, board membership, 8

or common legal jurisdiction. Constraint satisfaction is thereby an auditable deployment property rather than an 

invisible assumption. 

Out of scope. Correlation across both channels requires concurrent access to the credential validator’s decryption 

keys and the submission server’s routing records; this adversary class is documented in Section 4.6. 

4.2 Design Goals 

G1: Device -Rooted Authenticity. The system must cryptographically prove that content originated from a 

registered capture device. Adversaries cannot generate valid verification records without possessing a legitimate 

registered device or successfully breaking hardware security mechanis ms. 

G2: Privacy Preservation. No single party can correlate a specific capture device to specific verified content. 

Privacy is computational: it holds against adversaries who observe any single system component but not against 

adversaries who simultaneously compromise both the creden tial validator and submission server. 

G2a: Extreme Data Minimization. As a structural corollary of G2: each system component is designed to hold 

only the data necessary for its function, such that no individual component holds sufficient information to expose 

creator -to -content mappings. G2 is achieved structurally through the two -channel separation: no component in 

the base architecture persistently assembles the relationship between a specific device and specific content. 

G3: Metadata Independence. Verification records must survive format conversion, compression, and platform 

reprocessing. Verification requires only the media content itself. 

G4: Public Verifiability. Any party must be able to verify content authenticity without credentials or 

intermediary, without revealing the verifier’s identity. 

G5: Minimal Storage. Registry records are compact (153 bytes on -chain), enabling low -cost validator operation. 

Compactness also serves a privacy function: minimal on -chain footprint reduces the fingerprinting surface 

available to observers correlating submission timing, reco rd size, or metadata patterns. 

G6: Temporal Data Minimization. Forensic capability is time -limited. All transaction log records, rotation 

schedules, nonces, and window decryption keys are automatically deleted after three years from window close. 

After expiry, no forensic traversal is possible regardless of componen t compromise. 

4.3 Device Non -Correlation 

Property: The credential validator learns the device identity when confirming a credential, but receives no content -

hash information for that submission. Formally: given device D_i authenticating content items C_1, C_2, …, C_n, the 

validator observes authentication events but receives no information sufficient to correlate device identifiers with 

content hashes within the defined adversary model. Content hashes are never transmitted to the validator. The formal 

basis is established by the observational equivalence p roof in Appendix A.2. 

4.4 Registry Observer Non -Identification 

Property: Registry observers see content hashes and coarsened posting timestamps but cannot identify devices, 

credential validators, or content creators. Given registry record R containing only content_hash and timestamp, 

observer O cannot determine which device cr eated R with probability greater than random guessing over the registered 

device population. The formal basis is established by the observational equivalence proof in BirthmarkBC.pv 

(Appendix A.3). 

4.5 Submission Server Blindness 

Property: Submission servers receive the full submission packet but cannot identify specific devices. Given encrypted 

credential token T from device D_i, the submission server cannot determine device_id with non -negligible probability. 

T = ECIES(device_id, pk_v) where pk_v is the credential validator’s public key, provisioned onto the device at 

registration. The corresponding private key sk_v is held exclusively by the credential validator and never transmitted 

to the submission server. S cannot determine device_id with non -negligible probability by standard reduction to the 

IND -CCA2 game for ECIES. S receives only a binary approval decision from the validator and never receives the 

decrypted token value. BirthmarkBC.pv verifies this prop erty directly; the ProVerif model’s aenc/adec primitives map 

to ECIES in the reference instantiation without gap. 

4.6 Composite Guarantee 9

The three properties together mean that correlation of a specific device to specific content requires simultaneously 

compromising the credential validator’s decryption keys and the submission server’s routing data. The base 

architecture achieves semantic n on -assembly at t=1: any single -component compromise yields only attribution -surface 

fragments. The back -lookup extension makes full sequential traversal of all four forensic chain parties the only 

attribution path; no partial coalition of fewer than four p arties can shortcut the chain. Independence here means the 

credential validator and submission server must not share ownership, legal jurisdiction, or key material; the structural 

controls enforcing this assumption are documented in Section 7.2. Under stan dard blockchain fault tolerance 

assumptions (requiring honest validators to outnumber compromised ones by at least 2:1), this attack surface is 

manageable for practical threat models. 

The privacy guarantee is computational rather than information -theoretic. An adversary who compromises both the 

validator and submission server infrastructure can perform correlation. 

## 5 THE REVOCATION TRADEOFF 

5.1 Back -Lookup: A Four -Party Forensic Extension 

For contexts where device revocation capability is required, the architecture supports a back -lookup extension 

structured as a four -party sequential forensic path. Each step in the path requires the previous one; there is no 

shortcutting. SS1 and SS2 are p ositional role labels (any submission server may occupy either) indicating which 

received the original submission (SS1) and which holds the relevant window decryption keys (SS2). The four parties 

and their roles are: 

Governing Server (GS). Holds per -rotation -window nonces. The submission server encrypts its key rotation log 

with a nonce, transmits the nonce to the GS, and deletes the nonce locally. The GS is the only party that can make 

the key rotation log intelligible. Access to the GS i s required to begin any forensic traversal. 

Submission Server 1 (SS1). Holds the key rotation log in encrypted form (unintelligible without the GS nonce). 

The log records which submission server holds the decryption key for each rotation window’s transaction records. 

With the GS nonce, SS1 can identify which SS2 to contact for a given transaction. 

Submission Server 2 (SS2). Holds decryption keys for transaction logs of the rotation windows it was assigned. 

With a request from SS1 (which required the GS nonce to identify SS2), it decrypts the relevant transaction log 

to identify the specific transaction. 

Credential Validator (CV). Holds device credentials and matches them to transaction IDs. The CV is never 

queried directly in legitimate forensic operation. Instead, identified TxIDs are posted to the public revocation list; 

the CV reads this list autonomously and acts internally t o blacklist the device. 

Once a TxID is identified, it is posted to the public revocation list. The CV acts on this list internally, resolving device 

identity, revoking future submissions from that device, and initiating the window -level broadcast purge. 

The privacy cost of this extension is bounded: the four -party chain must be traversed in full to enable attribution of 

any specific transaction. No single -component or two -component compromise enables attribution. The base 

architecture’s non -attribution pr operty does not hold for deployments that include back -lookup, but the multi -party 

sequential dependency ensures attribution requires coordinated access across four independent organizational 

boundaries. 

5.2 Active Defense Mechanics 

The four -party forensic path, when deployed, introduces an active defense layer with two kill switches operating at 

different points in the chain and a key rotation mechanism that bounds retrospective exposure. These mechanics apply 

only to deployments usi ng the back -lookup extension; the base architecture does not require them. The kill switches 

are asymmetric in scope and reversibility; the correct mechanism depends on the nature of the threat. 

Sliding -window key rotation and key provisioning. Each submission server holds a physically provisioned 

master key, loaded directly onto hardware and never transmitted over a network. At the start of each rotation 

window, the server derives a window -specific key pair from its master key using a per -wind ow random salt 

distributed by the GS. The derived encryption key is sent to whichever SS has been assigned to hold the decryption 

capability for that window. The GS generates and distributes the salt alongsi de the window assignment schedule 

but does not retain the salt, ensuring the GS accumulates no key material. The window assignment schedule is 

randomized each rotation to prevent pairing predictability. Window decryption keys are always distributed to 10 

submission servers operating under a different legal jurisdiction than the originating server; no submission server 

holds decryption keys for windows it originated, and no two servers in the key relationship share a jurisdiction. 

Key tables are valid for a defined rotation window, nominally 30 days. Each submission server maintains an encrypted 

key rotation log recording which server holds decryption keys for each window. Upon rotation, the nonce for the 

retiring window is destroye d at the GS; the originating server’s encrypted log entry for that window becomes 

permanently unintelligible. Key rotation does not affect the registry: content hashes written to the blockchain are 

permanent and unaffected by rotation. 

Kill switch: Emergency Blinding Protocol (EBP). Triggered by the Governing Server via the Emergency Purge 

Broadcast, following confirmed forensic traversal or automated Decryption Key Tripwire detection. When a 

device has been identified via the four -party chain, its TxID is posted to the public revoc ation list. The CV acts 

on this list internally, revokes the device, and executes the mandatory purge instruction broadcast by the GS. The 

purge destroys all TxID to Device_ID associations for the entire compr omised rotation window across the system. 

This is a window -level operation: all forensic paths for all transactions in that window are permanently severed, 

not just the confirmed fraudulent transaction. The window purge is irreversible; it trades the foren sic traceability 

of an entire window for permanent protection of all attribution paths within it. The constraint preservation model 

governing the prohibition on device -to -token mapping records is described in Section 7.2; a concrete hardening 

example for t hat constraint is also provided there. The GS is the tripwire’s failure point: an adversary controlling 

the GS can suppress the purge notification before it fires, making GS integrity the highest -value assumption in 

the active defense chain. 

> Figure 2. Targeted privacy attack traversal and automated interception. An attacker with sequential access to SS1,
> SS2, and CV must traverse the four -party chain in order. Key rotation log queries (Stage 1) and decryption key queries
> (Stage 2) are automati cally reported to the Governing Server. When Stage 2 completes without a matching authorized

11 

> forensic lookup, the GS triggers the Emergency Blinding Protocol before the attacker can reach Stage 3. The
> transaction record is permanently deleted before CV endpoint access yields any correlating data.

Temporal expiry. All components in the forensic chain automatically delete their associated data three years 

after window close: each submission server purges its encrypted transaction log entries and any decryption keys 

held for expired windows, the GS destroys associat ed nonces and schedule records, and CVs purge transaction 

records for expired windows. Deletion is distributed and independent (each component acts on its own schedule 

without coordination). Because each stage holds only partial traversal i nformation, deletion of any single 

component’s window data irreversibly severs the end -to -end attribution chain. The public registry is unaffected: 

content hashes and transaction IDs written to the blockchain are permanent records of authenticity and serve 

verification, not attribution. 

## 6 REFERENCE INSTANTIATION: THE BIRTHMARK STANDARD 

This section demonstrates that the architecture is deployable on constrained hardware under real operational 

constraints; it is not a specification of the Birthmark Standard, which is documented in full in [4]. The Birthmark 

Standard instantiates the two -channel provenance architecture for photographic media in journalism contexts, 

applying Semantic Non -Assembly to a deployment where ZK -based approaches are computationally infeasible and 

metadata -dependent systems fail at distribution. The reference instant iation includes the back -lookup forensic 

extension described in Section 5, with the privacy cost characterized in Table 3. 

Deployment viability on constrained hardware is established by the architecture’s computational requirements: device -

side operations require ECIES key encapsulation (one elliptic curve scalar multiplication, approximately 1 –5ms on 

ARM Cortex -A class proces sors), AES -256 -GCM, and SHA -256, all available on virtually all modern embedded 

processors, with total device -side overhead well within a 100ms capture -path budget [11][12]. Registry records are 

153 bytes on -chain, enabling nonprofit organizations to opera te validator nodes at low cost. The architecture’s 

governance instantiation is provided by journalism organizations, fact -checking networks, and press freedom 

advocates operating under the anti -concentration controls described in Section 7.2. Full implemen tation details, 

hardware benchmarks, on -chain record structure, and governance specification are documented in [4]. 

## 7 DISCUSSION 

7.1 Relationship to Cryptographic Blinding Approaches 

ZK -proof -based device authentication provides stronger protocol -layer guarantees: Device Non -Correlation holds 

even against a compromised credential validator. For deployment contexts where ZK infrastructure is available and 

capture -path latency permits, Z K approaches are preferable on that dimension. ZK systems carry computational 

hardness assumptions, trusted -setup requirements, and proof -generation implementation complexity on constrained 

hardware. This architecture substitutes coordinated multi -componen t organizational compromise as the threshold for 

failure, a categorically harder attack to execute under the dominant real -world breach modes. Real ZK deployments 

also generate operational metadata outside the formal model: network traffic patterns, valida tor logs, and timing 

correlations that are structurally indistinguishable from those of this architecture. Neither system eliminates 

operational metadata leakage; the difference lies in the consequences of leakage, not its occurrence. On constrained 

captur e hardware, the performance gap is also a practical constraint: ZK proof generation via multi -scalar 

multiplication (MSM) on ARM -class embedded processors requires seconds to minutes per proof [5], introducing 

capture -path latency and thermal load incompat ible with continuous -capture operation. Device -side operations in this 

architecture require ECIES key encapsulation, AES -256 -GCM, and SHA -256, benchmarked within a 100ms total 

capture -path budget on commodity embedded hardware [11][12], with no thermal acc umulation across successive 

captures. This architecture additionally provides a semantic minimization property ZK systems do not inherently 

provide: the system holds no media content, so no party can perform content -based attribution regardless of protocol -

layer guarantees. 

> ZK -based device authentication and SNA are orthogonal. ZK addresses whether a device can prove membership without revealing
> which member it is; SNA addresses whether any component can assemble the sufficient information set for the target identifica tion
> fu nction. A ZK -based system does not automatically satisfy SNA, and this architecture satisfies SNA without ZK. For deployment
> contexts where both are achievable, they are complementary.

7.2 Bounded Disclosure Under Compromise 12 

The separation of privilege principle applies directly [7]. Table 3 formalizes bounded disclosure under compromise. 

All rows in the table are subject to the three -year temporal expiry described in Section 5.2: after that point, no forensic 

traversal is pos sible regardless of compromise level. 

Table 3. Bounded disclosure under compromise for the four -party forensic extension (Section 5.1). The base 

architecture rows (registry, individual servers, CV) apply to all deployments. The four -party chain rows apply only 

to deployments using the back -lookup exte nsion. The system never holds media content; no compromise scenario 

enables passive bulk attribution without the adversary independently possessing candidate media. Legitimate 

forensic operation never queries the CV directly; any direct CV attribut ion query is definitionally adversarial and 

triggers the CV read tripwire, which notifies the GS and initiates the automated window purge.               

> Component Adversary gains Cannot determine Surveillance class
> Registry (public) Content hashes; coarsened
> timestamps
> Device identity; photographer
> identity; any attribution
> None
> GS alone Per -window nonces Encrypted key rotation log; any
> transaction or device data
> None
> SS1 alone Encoded key rotation log
> (unintelligible without GS nonce)
> Which SS2 to contact; any
> transaction or device data
> None
> SS2 alone Decryption keys for assigned
> rotation windows
> Which transactions to decrypt
> (requires SS1+GS)
> None
> CV alone Device credentials; membership
> database
> Content hashes; which content any
> device authenticated
> Trial -and -error clustering only;
> no content attribution
> GS + SS1 Decoded key rotation log; identity
> of SS2 per window
> Transaction records (requires SS2);
> device identity (requires CV)
> Identifies SS2; no attribution
> data
> GS + SS1 + SS2 Specific transactions identified
> within rotation window
> Device identity (requires CV); CV
> query triggers tripwire
> Transaction identification only
> All four (adversarial) Attempted attribution via direct CV
> read; CV tripwire fires before match
> Passive bulk attribution (system
> holds no media)
> Worst -case: targeted
> hypothesis testing on
> possessed media only
> All four (legitimate) TxID identified; device revoked;
> window purge executed
> N/A Device revoked; window
> purge severs all forensic paths
> for that window

A compelled single infrastructure component yields only the bounded disclosure characterized in Table 3. Coalition 

Member compulsion triggers mandatory removal instead of retaining a compromised validator (per the reference 

instantiation’s governance model ), operationalizing graceful degradation under coercion: localized legal compulsion 

cannot silently become network -wide subversion, and the 67% supermajority required for finalization means a 

compelled minority cannot suppress records while the removal pro cess completes. Operators in different jurisdictions 

are subject to different legal orders; simultaneous multi -jurisdictional compulsion is categorically harder to execute 

than single -operator compulsion and represents the same coordinated multi -component class of attack described as 

out of scope in Section 4.1. 

Legal compulsion that requires a validator or submission server to violate the architecture’s structural constraints constitu tes a 

governance compliance failure. The compelled operator faces a binary choice: resist the order and remain in the consortium, o r

comply and be removed from the accepted server list. Either outcome is publicly observable through the audit record, converti ng 

geopolitical legal pressure from a silent compromise vector into a visible governance event. 

The audited constraint preservation model treats this explicitly: the consortium governance layer provides continuous 

public auditability of constraint satisfaction, so any degradation of structural independence is potentially detectable 

through the public audit record before it becomes exploitable, though the audit mechanism provides a detection 

opportunity, not a detection guarantee, and an adversary with sufficient control over the governance process could 

suppress the audit signal. The governance layer does not enforce honesty directly; it continuously exposes violations 

of the structural constraints on which Semantic Non -Assembly depends. The three -year automatic expiry of all 

forensic chain data provides a hard temporal bound: regardless of what an adv ersary accumulates before expiry, the 

data required to complete a forensic traversal is permanently unavailable after that point. These measures reduce the 

passive observation value of the registry and raise the coordination cost of correlation attacks. Th ey do not constitute 

cryptographic guarantees. Timing analysis, traffic analysis, validator behavior leakage, and operational metadata 

correlation remain partially possible. 13 

The reference governance model incorporates explicit anti -concentration controls intended to preserve the structural 

independence assumptions on which Semantic Non -Assembly depends. Validator ownership is capped per 

organization (Section 3.3 of the governa nce charter), with related entities treated as a single governance actor for 

ownership -limit purposes. This converts distributed governance from an aspiration into an enforceable structural 

property, treating governance capture as a first -class adversarial concern. Excluding organizations with direct media -

production or commercial content interests from validator governance (Section 3.1) reduces conflict -of -interest risk 

to censorship -resistance and provenance claims; credential validators (camera manufactu rers) operate outside 

Coalition governance by design, accepting that manufacturer independence from editorial governance is preserved at 

the cost of no formal manufacturer voice in protocol decisions. These measures do not cryptographically guarantee 

long -term institutional independence, but they increase the operational difficulty of silent consolidation and reduce 

incentives for attribution -capability convergence. The governance layer is therefore a load -bearing component of the 

security architecture, not an administrative overlay. 

One concrete hardening mechanism for this constraint is worth documenting here. Before connecting to the consortium 

network, a credential validator operator’s manufacturing database is audited by an independent party who directly 

inspects the schema to con firm it supports only membership queries, with no device -identifier -to -token mapping 

present. The auditor and manufacturer co -sign the schema attestation, which is posted to the consortium blockchain. 

The attestation is immutable; any later audit triggered by suspicion can compare the current schema against the 

committed record. Discrepancy is provably post -certification, establishing clear accountability without requiring 

recurring audit structure. This mechanism is a hardening example for the audited cons traint preservation model; the 

architecture does not prescribe it as the only compliant approach. 

7.3 Limitations 

Scope: hardware provenance only. Authentication records confirm that content originated from a registered 

device. They do not verify scene truthfulness, chain of custody after capture, or editorial integrity. Staged content 

from a registered unmodified camera passes verification. This s cope is intentional. 

Worst -case failure mode. In deployments using the back -lookup extension, coordinated compromise of all four 

parties in the forensic chain enables targeted hypothesis testing on candidate media already possessed by the 

adversary. The automated CV tripwire (Section 5.2) is the pri mary technical defense: it triggers the window purge 

before the adversary can complete the final step. If the tripwire fails or is disabled, the adversary can confirm 

whether a specific device authenticated specific content they alr eady possess. This is not passive bulk attribution; 

the system holds no media, so mass deanonymization is not possible regardless of compromise level. 

Governance capture. The anti -concentration controls in Section 7.2 are designed with governance capture as a 

first -class concern, as both an adversarial attack and an institutionally realistic failure mode: journalism -adjacent 

governance structures have historically been su bject to capture by state -adjacent or commercially -aligned actors. 

Validator ownership caps, jurisdictional distribution requirements, and the exclusion of commercial content 

interests from governance are direct mitigations. They reduce the incentive and opportunity for capture but do not 

eliminate it; the audited constraint preservation model is the detection mechanism if capture occurs. 

Formal model scope. The ProVerif proofs in Appendix A establish channel separation properties under a 

network adversary model; the full scope of what the proofs cover and exclude is documented in Appendix A.5. 

Back -lookup retention risk. In deployments that include back -lookup, the submission server’s transaction ID 

mapping is a residual correlation surface. Compromise of this mapping enables an adversary to flag legitimate 

transactions as fraudulent or to monitor revocation patterns. De vice identity is not stored on the submission server 

and requires additional access to the credential validator’s internal records. The public revocation list records only 

opaque transaction identifiers; without SS1 and GS access to decode the key rotation log, a revocation entry 

cannot be associated with specific content, a device, or a submission event. 

Adoption dependency. The system provides positive verification only. Content from devices whose 

manufacturers have not registered as credential validators lacks registry records and passes through the system 

unverified. Coverage is bounded by manufacturer participation, not by the architecture itself. In regulatory or 

legal contexts, this creates a structural asymmetry: content authenticated through participating manufacturers 

carries positive verification while content from non -participating hardware does not. This two -tier dynamic is not 

created by the architecture (unverified content exists in any system that provides positive verification only), but 

the architecture does not eliminate it either. Organizations using non -participating hardware are in no worse a 

position than they would be without the system, but they do not benefit from it. The natural mitigation is open -

source credential infrastructure that allows smaller manufacturers and device categories to participate at low cost; 14 

the architecture does not prescribe this but is compatible with it. Deployers operating in regulatory contexts where 

verification asymmetry could have legal consequences should assess participation coverage before deployment. 

Content hash collision. Verification records are bound to content hashes, not content. Two distinct media files 

with the same SHA -256 hash would share a verification record. At realistic submission volumes (10^9 per day), 

accidental collision probability remains negligible unde r SHA -256’s 2^128 collision resistance. Constructing a 

perceptually coherent image that intentionally collides with a target hash is computationally infeasible under 

current assumptions; this attack class is outside the defined adver sary model. 

Hardware assumptions. The security of device credentials depends on hardware secure element integrity. 

Physical extraction of credentials from EAL5+ -certified secure elements is costly and affects only individual 

devices; bulk compromise is economically infeasible under curre nt certification standards. This is an empirical 

observation rather than a formal bound and may change as hardware attack techniques evolve. 

Data classification under GDPR. The architecture does not process personal data in the conventional sense: the 

registry holds only content hashes and coarsened timestamps, and no component retains device identifiers or 

photographer identity. In photojournalism deployment contexts, howe ver, a content hash of a photograph of an 

identifiable individual (combined with a coarsened timestamp) may constitute personal data under GDPR Article 

4(1) when held by a party that independently possesses the underlying med ia, since the hash is linkable to an 

identifiable person through that media. The architecture does not create this linkage, and no component holds 

both the hash and the media. Whether content hashes in isolation constitute personal data under the relevant 

jurisdiction’s interpretation of GDPR is a deployment -specific legal question outside the scope of this paper; 

deployers operating under GDPR should obtain appropriate legal assessment for their specific context. 

## 8 CONCLUSION 

We have introduced Semantic Non -Assembly: a class of privacy guarantee characterized by the information yield of 

component exposure rather than the difficulty of achieving it. Restricting access to an existing store is a weaker 

property: it depends on the store existing and the restriction holding. In the base protocol, the guarantee is structural 

rather than procedural: architecture enforces it; policy cannot. Deployments using the back -lookup extension combine 

this structural guarantee with audited organi zational constraints, as documented in Section 5. The guarantee is distinct 

from confidentiality, access control, information flow control, and statistical disclosure limitation. It applies to systems 

where a target identification function is authorized bu t must not be passively available. A two -channel provenance 

architecture instantiates the guarantee with ProVerif -verified formal properties. The Birthmark Standard demonstrates 

deployability on constrained capture hardware. 

Structurally, Semantic Non -Assembly holds: no component ever holds sufficient information to correlate a device to 

content, and the system never holds media content at any stage. In the base architecture, even fully colluding operators 

cannot perform passi ve bulk attribution or photographer enumeration without independently possessing the underlying 

media; deployments using the back -lookup extension support targeted attribution via the four -party forensic chain, 

with the privacy cost bounded as documented i n Section 5. Under the dominant real -world breach modes, each 

component compromise yields only attribution -surface fragments; worst -case coordinated subversion produces 

targeted confirmation on already -possessed media, not generalized deanonymization. 

Both tradeoffs in this architecture are explicit and documented. Audited constraint preservation does not protect 

against simultaneous compromise of the credential validator and submission server. Back -lookup capability, when 

deployed, partially breaks Dev ice Non -Correlation for the credential validator. Neither limitation is hidden, and the 

precise scope of each is stated in Sections 5 and 7.3. 

Deployment viability follows from the architecture’s computational requirements: device -side operations require 

ECIES key encapsulation, AES -256 -GCM, and SHA -256, within a 100ms capture -path budget on commodity 

embedded hardware. A reference instantiation (the Birthmark Standard) demonstrates 153 -byte on -chain records and 

governance by journalism organizations operating on commodity hardware at low per -node cost. The specification 

and reference implementation are published under Apache 2.0. 

In a threat environment where leaks are inevitable, designing for the consequences of failure is at least as important 

as designing against it. 

Repository: https://github.com/Birthmark -Standard/Birthmark 

## REFERENCES 15 

[1] Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity. C2PA Technical Specification, Version 2.1. September 2024. 

https://spec.c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/2.1/ 

[2] Blanchet, B. An Efficient Cryptographic Protocol Verifier Based on Prolog Rules. CSFW 2001. 

[3] Wood, G. et al. Polkadot: Vision for a Heterogeneous Multi -Chain Framework. 2016. 

[4] Ryan, S. The Birthmark Standard: Privacy -Preserving Photo Authentication via Hardware Roots of Trust and Consortium 

Blockchain. arXiv:2602.04933, 2026. (arXiv preprint; not independently peer -reviewed at time of this submission.) 

[5] Salleras, X.; Daza, V. ZPiE: Zero -Knowledge Proofs in Embedded Systems. Mathematics 2021, 9(20), 2569. 

https://doi.org/10.3390/math9202569 

[6] Verizon. 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report. Verizon Business, 2024. 

[7] Saltzer, J.H.; Schroeder, M.D. The Protection of Information in Computer Systems. Proceedings of the IEEE, 63(9), 1278 –

1308, 1975. 

[8] Groth, J. On the Size of Pairing -Based Non -Interactive Arguments. EUROCRYPT 2016, LNCS vol. 9666, pp. 305 –326. DOI: 

10.1007/978 -3-662 -49896 -5_11. 

[9] Cavoukian, A. Privacy by Design: The 7 Foundational Principles. IPC Ontario, revised January 2011. 

[10] Abadi, M.; Rogaway, P. Reconciling Two Views of Cryptography. Journal of Cryptology, 15(2), 103 –127, 2002. DOI: 

10.1007/s00145 -002 -0103 -3. 

[11] Bernstein, D.J.; Schwabe, P. NEON Crypto. CHES 2012. LNCS vol. 7428, pp. 320 –339. DOI: 10.1007/978 -3-642 -33027 -

8_19. 

[12] Bernstein, D.J.; Lange, T. (eds.). eBACS: ECRYPT Benchmarking of Cryptographic Systems. https://bench.cr.yp.to (accessed 

2026). 

[13] Ben -Or, M.; Goldwasser, S.; Wigderson, A. Completeness Theorems for Non -Cryptographic Fault -Tolerant Distributed 

Computation. STOC 1988, pp. 1 –10. DOI: 10.1145/62212.62213. 

[14] Nissenbaum, H. Privacy as Contextual Integrity. Washington Law Review, 79(1), 119 –158, 2004. 

[15] Dwork, C.; McSherry, F.; Nissim, K.; Smith, A. Calibrating Noise to Sensitivity in Private Data Analysis. TCC 2006, LNCS 

vol. 3876, pp. 265 –284. DOI: 10.1007/11681878_14. 

## APPENDIX A: PROVERIF FORMAL VERIFICATION 

A.1 Overview 

This appendix presents the formal verification of the privacy properties described in Sections 4 and 5.2 using ProVerif, 

a cryptographic protocol verifier that uses a process algebra (applied pi -calculus) to model protocol participants and 

prove security p roperties. The model and proof for Property A (Device Non -Correlation) are adapted from Ryan 

(2026) [4]. Properties B and C are verified by observational equivalence in a second executable ProVerif model 

(BirthmarkBC.pv), documented in Appendix A.3. Formal verification of the active defense gate properties 

(BirthmarkD.pv) is documented in Appendix A.4. 

The ProVerif model captures the core separation property: the Device sends the content hash and encrypted credential 

to the Server; the Server routes the encrypted credential to the Validator and posts the content hash to the registry; the 

Validator return s a binary decision without observing the content hash. The model omits optional implementation 

details such as timestamp rounding and key table indexing; neither affects the channel separation property being 

proved, as both operate after or within a singl e channel rather than crossing channel boundaries. 

ProVerif operates under the Dolev -Yao adversary model: the adversary controls the network, can intercept and inject 

messages on public channels, but cannot break cryptographic primitives (AES -256, SHA -256). The model treats 

cryptographic operations as secu re by assumption rather than analyzing their bit -level implementation, consistent with 

the Network Adversary (A_NET) defined in Section 4.1. 

Table A.1 summarizes the four verified properties, the ProVerif model used for each, and the proof technique applied. 

Property  Model  Technique  Guarantee 

A BirthmarkA.pv  Observational equivalence  Device Non -Correlation 

B BirthmarkBC.pv  Observational equivalence  Registry Observer Non -Identification 

C BirthmarkBC.pv  Observational equivalence  Submission Server Blindness 

D BirthmarkD.pv  Correspondence + 

reachability 

Active Defense Gate 16 

A.2 Property A: Device Non -Correlation (Executable Proof) 

We model the protocol as three concurrent processes: Device, Server, and Validator. The Device encrypts its credential 

token under the Validator’s public key and sends both the encrypted token and the binding value to the Server. The 

Server forwards the to ken to the Validator and, on approval, posts the content hash to the registry. The Validator 

decrypts the token, checks membership, and returns a decision without observing the content hash. 

The proof establishes that two scenarios are indistinguishable to any outside observer: one in which the Device 

authenticates content item C_1, and one in which it authenticates C_2. If the Validator cannot distinguish these 

scenarios, Device Non -Correlati on holds. 

ProVerif Model — Property A: 

(* Executable ProVerif model verifying Property A *) 

type key. type skey. type pkey. 

fun pk(skey): pkey. 

fun aenc(bitstring, pkey): bitstring. 

reduc forall m:bitstring, sk:skey; adec(aenc(m, pk(sk)), sk) = m. 

fun hash(bitstring): bitstring. 

free pub: channel. 

free validator_private: channel [private]. 

free registry: channel. 

free v_ok: bitstring. free v_no: bitstring. 

free sk_v: skey [private]. letfun pk_v = pk(sk_v). 

free T1: bitstring [private]. free T2: bitstring [private]. 

free contentA: bitstring [private]. free contentB: bitstring [private]. 

let device(token: bitstring, content: bitstring) = 

let h = hash(content) in 

let enc_token = aenc(token, pk_v) in 

out(pub, (h, enc_token)). 

let server =

in(pub, (h: bitstring, enc_token: bitstring)); 

out(validator_private, enc_token); 

in(validator_private, decision: bitstring); 

if decision = v_ok then out(registry, h). 

let validator =

in(validator_private, enc_token: bitstring); 

let token = adec(enc_token, sk_v) in 

if (token = T1 || token = T2) then out(validator_private, v_ok) 

else out(validator_private, v_no). 

process out(pub, pk_v); 

( (!device(T1, choice[contentA, contentB])) | (!server) | (!validator) ) 

ProVerif Output: 

RESULT Observational equivalence is true. 

------------------------------------------------------------

Verification summary: Observational equivalence is true. 

------------------------------------------------------------

This result confirms that an adversary with full network observation capabilities cannot distinguish between scenarios 

where the same device authenticates different content items. The Validator receives only the encrypted credential 

token; the registry rec eives only the content hash. No channel carries both. Device Non -Correlation holds. Termination 

warnings in the full ProVerif output indicate selection heuristics used by the resolution engine and do not affect the 

validity of the result. 

A.3 Properties B and C: Registry Observer Non -Identification and Submission Server Blindness 

(Observational Equivalence Proof) 

ProVerif Model (BirthmarkBC.pv): 

(* BirthmarkBC.pv: Observational Equivalence Proof *) 

type skey. type pkey. 

fun pk(skey): pkey. fun aenc(bitstring, pkey): bitstring. 

reduc forall m:bitstring, sk:skey; adec(aenc(m,pk(sk)),sk) = m. 

fun hash(bitstring): bitstring. 

free pub: channel. free mfr_private: channel [private]. 

free blockchain: channel. 

free v_ok: bitstring. free v_no: bitstring. 

free sk_m: skey [private]. letfun pk_m = pk(sk_m). 

free T1: bitstring [private]. free T2: bitstring [private]. 

free img: bitstring [private]. 

(* Property B: registry view is hash(img) in both worlds. *) 

(* Observational equivalence checked via choice[T1,T2] below. *) 17 

(* Property C: aenc(T1,pk_m) vs aenc(T2,pk_m): indistinguish - *) (* able under IND -

CCA2. Server cannot identify device. *) 

let camera(token: bitstring, image: bitstring) = 

let h = hash(image) in 

let enc_token = aenc(token, pk_m) in 

out(pub, (h, enc_token)). 

let server =

in(pub, (h: bitstring, enc_token: bitstring)); 

out(mfr_private, enc_token); 

in(mfr_private, decision: bitstring); 

if decision = v_ok then out(blockchain, h). 

let manufacturer =

in(mfr_private, enc_token: bitstring); 

let token = adec(enc_token, sk_m) in 

if (token = T1 || token = T2) then out(mfr_private, v_ok) 

else out(mfr_private, v_no). 

process out(pub, pk_m); 

((!camera(choice[T1,T2], img)) | (!server) | (!manufacturer)) 

ProVerif Output: 

--------------------------------------------------------------

Verification summary: 

Observational equivalence is true. 

--------------------------------------------------------------

The observational equivalence result establishes that no Dolev -Yao adversary can distinguish a world where device 

T1 authenticated img from a world where device T2 did. The two worlds differ only in which token is encrypted: the 

registry receives hash(img) in both, and the submission server receives aenc(T1, pk_m) vs aenc(T2, pk_m), which are 

indistinguishable under the symbolic model’s treatment of asymmetric encryption. Since the Dolev -Yao attacker 

subsumes both the registry observer (Property B) and the submission server (Property C), the equivalence result 

establishes both properties simultaneously and at a stronger level than reachability: not only can the attacker not derive 

the tokens, it cannot distinguish which token was used at all. 

A.4 Property D: Active Defense Gate (BirthmarkD.pv) 

BirthmarkD.pv verifies five properties of the active defense gate and four -party back -lookup chain under two process variants: GS 

in purge state (main process) and GS in normal state (sanity -check process). The main process grants the adversary two explici t

capabilities: observation of the purge command, and possession of the opaque CV table record (senc(ss2_addr, record_nonce) an d

senc(key_index, record_nonce)). The sanity -check process adds gs_nonce_server, enabling chain completion and verifying D.3 

and D.4 non -vacuously. 

ProVerif Model (BirthmarkD.pv): 

(* Symmetric authenticated encryption — models AES -256 -GCM *) 

fun senc(bitstring, bitstring): bitstring. 

fun sdec(bitstring, bitstring): bitstring. 

equation forall m: bitstring, k: bitstring; 

sdec(senc(m, k), k) = m. 

free pub: channel. 

free cv_gs_chan: channel [private]. 

free ss1_gs_chan: channel [private]. 

free ss1_ss2_chan: channel [private]. 

free revoc_list: channel [private]. 

free ok_token: bitstring [private]. 

free record_nonce: bitstring [private]. 

free ss2_addr: bitstring [private]. 

free key_index: bitstring [private]. 

free window_key: bitstring [private]. 

free table_record: bitstring [private]. 

free device_id: bitstring [private]. 

free ss1_auth: bitstring [private]. 

free purge_cmd: bitstring. 

free liveness_req: bitstring. 

event GS_SentOK(). event GS_SentPurge(). 

event SS1_ReceivedNonce(). event SS1_DerivedIndex(). 

event SS2_ReleasedKey(). event BackLookupComplete(). 

event CV_AccessedTable(). event CV_ExecutedPurge(). 

event CV_RevokedDevice(bitstring). 18 

(* D.1 *) query event(CV_AccessedTable()) ==> event(GS_SentOK()). 

(* D.2 *) query attacker(table_record). query attacker(device_id). 

(* D.3 *) query event(SS2_ReleasedKey()) ==> event(SS1_ReceivedNonce()). 

(* D.4 *) query event(BackLookupComplete()) ==> event(SS2_ReleasedKey()). 

(* D.5 *) query attacker(ss2_addr). query attacker(key_index). 

(* Non -vacuity *) 

query event(CV_ExecutedPurge()). 

query event(BackLookupComplete()). 

query event(SS1_DerivedIndex()). 

process 

out(pub, purge_cmd); 

out(pub, senc(ss2_addr, record_nonce)); 

out(pub, senc(key_index, record_nonce)); 

( (!gs_purge) | (!ss1) | (!ss2) | (!cv_lookup) | (!cv_revoke) ) 

ProVerif Output (main process, GS in purge state): 

--------------------------------------------------------------

Verification summary: 

Query event(CV_AccessedTable) ==> event(GS_SentOK) is true. 

Query not attacker(table_record[]) is true. 

Query not attacker(device_id[]) is true. 

Query event(SS2_ReleasedKey) ==> event(SS1_ReceivedNonce) is true. 

Query event(BackLookupComplete) ==> event(SS2_ReleasedKey) is true. 

Query not attacker(ss2_addr[]) is true. 

Query not attacker(key_index[]) is true. 

Query not event(CV_ExecutedPurge) cannot be proved. 

Query not event(BackLookupComplete) is true. 

Query not event(SS1_DerivedIndex) is true. 

--------------------------------------------------------------

D.1 (gate correspondence) is true: CV table access structurally requires prior GS authorization. D.2 (purge -state secrecy) is true for 

both table_record and device_id: neither is reachable when GS is in purge state. D.3 (chain dependency) and D.4 (chain in tegrity) 

are true vacuously in purge state; they are verified non -vacuously by the sanity -check process (GS in normal state). D.5 (opaque 

index secrecy) is true: an adversary holding the full CV table record cannot derive ss2_addr or key_index without reco rd_nonce, 

which is held by GS and never appears on a public channel. The non -vacuity check not event(CV_ExecutedPurge) cannot be 

proved, confirming the purge branch is reachable by design. not event(BackLookupComplete) and not event(SS1_DerivedIndex) 

are b oth true, confirming the back -lookup chain is structurally severed in purge state. 

A.5 Scope, Limitations, and Computational Soundness 

Properties B and C are verified by observational equivalence in BirthmarkBC.pv: no Dolev -Yao adversary can 

distinguish a world where device T1 authenticated the submitted content from a world where device T2 did. The 

Dolev -Yao attacker subsumes both the re gistry observer (Property B) and the submission server’s observable inputs 

(Property C); the equivalence result establishes both properties simultaneously. 

The symbolic model treats AES -256 and SHA -256 as perfect. Abadi and Rogaway [10] establish computational 

soundness transfer results for classes of symbolic models under suitable cryptographic assumptions: IND -CCA2 -

secure encryption and collision -resistant, preimage -resistant hash functions. The symbolic model used here falls 

within the scope of those results: ECIES provides IND -CCA2 security, and SHA -256 provides collision resistance 

and preimage resistance under standard assumptions. The symbolic proof tra nsfers to a computational guarantee that 

no PPT adversary can distinguish device -content correlations with non -negligible advantage. The ProVerif model’s 

aenc/adec primitives directly reflect the ECIES deployment; no gap exists between the verified model a nd the 

reference instantiation. 

Outside the current formal guarantees: (1) cryptographic hardness by reduction; (2) physical realization variables 

under the symbolic model (side -channel attacks, power analysis, and timing leakage in the A_HW class) are treated 

as out -of -scope physical im plementation concerns under standard symbolic cryptographic assumptions, not as 

properties of the protocol; (3) traffic analysis and timing correlation; (4) governance compromise and legal 19 

compulsion; (5) blockchain consensus and liveness; (6) key management correctness; (7) implementation bugs. Active 

defense gate properties (Property D: gate correspondence D.1, purge -state secrecy D.2, back -lookup chain dependency 

D.3, chain integrity D.4, and opaque index secrecy D.5) are formally verified in BirthmarkD.pv and documented in 

Appendix A.4. The gate proofs cover the back -lookup extension only; the base architecture does not require them. 

Temporal ordering guarantees are documented in [4]. 

A.6 Future Verification Directions 

Several extensions to the current formal model would strengthen the guarantees. A game -based proof would establish 

that the symbolic guarantees hold against probabilistic polynomial -time adversaries, by reduction to IND -CCA2 of 

the encryption scheme and pr eimage resistance of the hash function. This would replace the reliance on computational 

soundness transfer results with a direct reduction. A formal timing model could establish bounds on traffic analysis 

resistance under specific network assumptions, con verting heuristic traffic analysis resistance claims into formal 

bounds. 

The current proofs establish a formal foundation for the core channel separation property; they should be understood 

as a necessary but not sufficient component of a complete security argument. Properties B and C are established by 

observational equivalenc e in BirthmarkBC.pv, using the same biprocess technique as Property A. All three channel 

separation properties (A, B, C) are established by observational equivalence. The proof basis for Properties B and C 

is described in Sections 4.4 and 4.5 respectively.