Title: Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models

URL Source: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=j4IELrBhoG

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Omri Ben Hemo * 1 Alon Zolfi * 1 Oryan Yehezkel 1 Omer Hofman 2 Roman Vainshtein 2 Hisashi Kojima 3

Yuval Elovici 1 Asaf Shabtai 1

# Abstract 

Federated learning (FL) enables privacy-preserving distributed machine learning by sharing gradients instead of raw data. However, FL remains vulnerable to gradient inversion attacks, in which shared gradients can reveal sensitive training data. Prior research has mainly concentrated on unimodal tasks, particularly image classification, examining the reconstruc-tion of single-modality data, and analyzing privacy vulnerabilities in these relatively simple scenarios. As multimodal models are increasingly used to address complex vision-language tasks, it becomes essential to assess the privacy risks inherent in these architectures. In this paper, we explore gradient inversion attacks targeting multimodal vision-language Document Visual Question Answering (DQA) models and propose GI-DQA, a novel method that reconstructs private document content from gradients. Through extensive evaluation on state-of-the-art DQA models, our approach exposes critical privacy vulnerabilities and highlights the urgent need for robust defenses to secure multimodal FL systems. Project page at: 

> https://AlonZolfi.github.io/GI-DQA/

.

# 1. Introduction 

Federated learning (McMahan et al., 2017) has emerged as a popular paradigm for privacy-preserving distributed ma-chine learning. In FL, multiple clients collaboratively train a global model under the coordination of a central server over several rounds. During each round, clients update the local model using their private training data and transmit only the computed gradients to the server. The server aggregates       

> *Equal contribution 1Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Israel
> 2Fujitsu Research of Europe 3Fujitsu Limited. Correspondence to: Omri Ben Hemo / Alon Zolfi <{omribenh,zolfi }@post.bgu.ac.il >.
> Proceedings of the 42 nd International Conference on Machine Learning , Vancouver, Canada. PMLR 267, 2025. Copyright 2025 by the author(s).

Figure 1: Gradient inversion attack on DQA models in FL. Left: document with private data from a benign client. Right: zoomed-in section shown in three versions (top to bottom): original, adversary’s reference (public document template), and GI-DQA reconstruction—demonstrating private data recovery using only gradients and a document template. these gradients to update the global model, reducing pri-vacy risks by avoiding the exchange of raw data (Banabilah et al., 2022). This paradigm has been successfully applied in real-world scenarios, including Google Keyboard (Yang et al., 2018), Apple’s Siri (Paulik et al., 2021), and criti-cal domains such as healthcare (Thrasher et al., 2023) and finance (Shi et al., 2023). Despite its privacy-preserving design, FL remains vulner-able to gradient inversion attacks (Du et al., 2024), which exploit the gradients shared by clients to reconstruct sensi-tive information from clients’ private training data. Prior research has primarily focused on recovering private im-age data using optimization-based methods, including iter-ative optimization to minimize gradient differences (Zhu et al., 2019; Zhao et al., 2020), enhancements through co-sine similarity and regularization (Geiping et al., 2020), and leveraging batch normalization for improved recovery in batches (Yin et al., 2021). More recent efforts have extended these attacks to complex architectures such as vision trans-formers (Lu et al., 2021; Hatamizadeh et al., 2022). While gradient inversion attacks have been extensively studied in unimodal tasks like image classification, their potential impact on multimodal applications remains unexplored. Recently, multimodal models have gained significant atten-tion for their ability to process and integrate diverse sources of information, including text, images, and spatial features, 1Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

enabling improved performance across a wide range of vision and language tasks (Wang et al., 2023). Among these, DQA models stand out for their focus on addressing document-related queries by leveraging multimodal capa-bilities. Broadly, DQA models can be categorized as either Optical Character Recognition (OCR)-based or OCR-free approaches. OCR-based models, such as the LayoutLM family (Xu et al., 2020a;b; Huang et al., 2022), rely on the extraction of textual information prior to processing and the combination of it with spatial and visual representa-tions to achieve state-of-the-art performance. In contrast, OCR-free models, such as Donut (Kim et al., 2022), bypass external OCR modules by directly learning from document images. Compared to unimodal models, which process only a single type of data, multimodal models excel at captur-ing intricate cross-modality relationships, offering richer semantic and contextual understanding. This capability not only enhances their effectiveness in handling sophisticated applications, but also underscores their growing prominence in cutting-edge research. Despite their effectiveness, train-ing multimodal models requires access to large, privacy-sensitive datasets that often contain confidential text and images. Centralizing such data for training poses privacy risks, regulatory concerns ( e.g. , GDPR, HIPAA), and logis-tical challenges. FL offers a promising solution by enabling multimodal models to be trained collaboratively across de-centralized data sources without exposing raw data (Nguyen & Karatzas, 2024). Despite the increasing popularity of multimodal models, gradient inversion attacks on them remain significantly un-derexplored, particularly in decentralized learning environ-ments such as FL. To address this gap, we present a compre-hensive study of gradient inversion attacks targeting DQA models. DQA is particularly interesting due to the sensitive and private nature of the documents it processes, such as medical records, financial statements, and legal contracts, making privacy concerns especially critical in real-world applications. Specifically, we propose GI-DQA, a novel method that reconstructs sensitive document content ( e.g. ,personal identifiable information) from shared gradients in an FL setup. To reflect realistic attacker capabilities, we as-sume access to standardized document templates, which are common in real-world domains ( e.g. , invoices, and medical forms). These templates follow fixed layouts with only a few variable fields, allowing the attacker to focus reconstruc-tion efforts on regions likely to contain private information, as shown in Figure 1. By leveraging the unique structure of multimodal models, GI-DQA exposes critical privacy vulnerabilities inherent in these models, providing deeper in-sight into the risks associated with multimodal architectures and emphasizing the need for robust countermeasures to pro-tect sensitive information. DQA-specific gradient inversion presents unique challenges: (i) reconstructing small-sized words in document images is significantly harder than re-covering large objects in natural images. Unlike large-scale structures that provide strong spatial cues, fine-grained text is densely packed, making even slight variations in gradients highly disruptive to reconstruction, (ii) text-based gradients are inherently sparse, which limits the amount of recover-able information. This sparsity makes it difficult to distin-guish meaningful features from noise, further complicating precise recovery. These factors make DQA-specific gradient inversion uniquely challenging and require more advanced techniques than those used in standard vision-based attacks. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments on state-of-the-art DQA models, including both OCR-based and OCR-free archi-tectures. Our evaluation demonstrates the feasibility of reconstructing private data with high fidelity, shedding light on the weaknesses of existing privacy-preserving mecha-nisms in multimodal FL setups. For example, on the Donut model, our attack is able to perfectly reconstruct 70.1% of the documents’ words. Our contributions can be summarized as follows: • To the best of our knowledge, we present the first gra-dient inversion attack on multimodal models, introduc-ing a novel method specifically tailored for multimodal DQA models. • A thorough evaluation of privacy vulnerabilities in state-of-the-art OCR-based and OCR-free DQA archi-tectures. • Insights into the unique challenges of performing gradi-ent inversion on multimodal tasks, highlighting critical areas for future research. • An exploration of potential defense mechanisms to mitigate privacy risks, offering a roadmap to enhance the robustness of multimodal models in FL systems. 

# 2. Background & Related Work 

2.1. Gradient Inversion in Federated Learning 

Gradient inversion attacks in FL aim to reconstruct private data by exploiting shared gradients. Prior attacks can be categorized by: (i) server’s trustworthiness: adversaries lo-cated on the server may be honest-but-curious (Zhu et al., 2019; Zhao et al., 2020; Geiping et al., 2020; Hatamizadeh et al., 2022; Lu et al., 2021), passively analyzing gradients without interfering, or malicious (Fowl et al., 2021; Chu et al., 2022; Pasquini et al., 2022; Fowl et al., 2022; Wen et al., 2022), actively disrupting the training process; and 

(ii) attack strategy: in optimization-based (Geiping et al., 2020; Yin et al., 2021; Hatamizadeh et al., 2022; Gupta et al., 2022; Lu et al., 2021) attacks, the ground-truth sam-ples are approximated through iterative refinement, while in analytic-based (Fan et al., 2020; Zhu & Blaschko, 2020) 2Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

attacks, systems of equations are solved between gradients and inputs to precisely reconstruct the data. In this work, we address the more challenging and realistic honest-but-curious setting, leveraging a combination of optimization-and analytic-based strategies. Most prior research has focused on recovering private im-age data through optimization-based approaches. Zhu et al. (2019) (DLG) first formulated the attack as an iterative op-timization problem, where attackers restore data samples by minimizing the distance between shared gradients and dummy gradients. Zhao et al. (2020) (iDLG) proposed extracting the label of a single sample from the gradients, which further improved the attack. Geiping et al. (2020) (In-verting Gradients) reconstructed higher-resolution images from ResNet-based models (He et al., 2016) by modifying the distance metric to cosine similarity and incorporating total variation as a regularization term. Yin et al. (2021) primarily focused on recovery for larger batch sizes. Their method assumes access to normalization (BN) statistics, which enabled partial image recovery at larger batch sizes. Hatamizadeh et al. (2022) (GradViT) and Lu et al. (2021) (APRIL) extended these attacks to vision transformers. These works primarily address unimodal classification mod-els, where reconstructed images typically contain a single prominent object. In contrast, our study focuses on an under-explored domain: the reconstruction of visual data from mul-timodal DQA models, where images consist of numerous fine-grained textual elements, introducing unique challenges for inversion. A recent related work (Liu et al., 2024) consid-ers gradient inversion in a multimodal FL setting; however, it employs independently trained, modality-specific models without shared representations, coordinated through mutual knowledge distillation. This approach fundamentally dif-fers from our setting, which involves deeply fused, jointly trained architectures typical of modern multimodal models. 

2.2. Document Visual Question Answering 

DQA has emerged as a prominent area of interest in the machine learning research community due to its ability to answer natural language questions by extracting meaningful information from documents. The importance of efficient management of document workflows spans multiple indus-tries, including banking, insurance, public administration, impacting virtually all aspects of business operations. A key differentiating factor among DQA models is their re-liance on OCR technology. OCR-based models, such as the LayoutLM family (Xu et al., 2020a;b; Huang et al., 2022), TILT (Powalski et al., 2021), and UDOP (Tang et al., 2023), use OCR to integrate textual, layout, and visual features, achieving impressive performance. In contrast, OCR-free models adopt end-to-end architectures that bypass external OCR modules. These models, including Donut (Kim et al., 2022), Pix2Struct (Lee et al., 2023), and Dessurt (Davis et al., 2022), incorporate reading-oriented pretraining objec-tives to directly process document images, offering competi-tive performance while reducing dependency on OCR tools. Both OCR-based and OCR-free approaches highlight the diverse methodologies in DQA, addressing trade-offs be-tween interpretability, robustness, and performance across various document understanding tasks. 

# 3. Method 

3.1. Preliminaries DQA Federated Learning. A FL framework for DQA consists of a server that coordinates K clients, each with a private dataset Dk of N samples (x, y ), where x represents the input data (visual document xD and question xQ), and 

y the target (corresponding answer). Clients collaboratively train a global DQA model fθ with weights θ without ex-changing raw data. In each round t, the server sends the current global model fθt to the clients for local training, for a total of T rounds. Each participating client computes the average gradient ∇kθt on its local data using the current global model: 

∇kθt = E(x,y )∈Dk [∇L (θt; x, y )] (1) where L(·) represents the standard DQA training loss. Fi-nally, the server aggregates the collected gradients and up-dates the global model as follows: 

fθt+1 ← fθt + η

> K

X

> k=1

∇kθt (2) where η is the learning rate. 

Gradient Inversion. Given a gradient ∇kθt computed by client k using the original data (x, y ) ∈ Dk, an adversary generates randomly initialized data (ˆ x, ˆy) which are itera-tively updated to approximate (x, y ) by solving the follow-ing optimization problem: 

ˆx∗ = arg min  

> ˆx

d(∇L (θ, ˆx, ˆy), ∇kθt) + X

> j

αj Rj (3) where d is a distance metric ( e.g. , euclidean distance), R

represents a regularization term ( e.g. , total variation (Cham-bolle et al., 2010)), and α is a weighting factor. Note that an adversary can perform the attack in any iteration t ∈ T .

3.2. Threat Model Adversary’s Capabilities. We consider an honest-but-curious adversary (Section 2.1) who has access to the gra-dients returned by an arbitrary client k, either by being physically located on the server or by eavesdropping on the communication between the central server and the client. At iteration t, the adversary has access to: (i) the gradients 3Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models Document 𝑥 𝐷                          

> Question 𝑥 𝑄
> “What is the advertiser ’s name? ”
> Ground -Truth Answer 𝑦
> “Priorities USA Action ”
> DQA Model 𝑓 𝜃 Predicted
> Answer ො𝑦
> “Prior USA ”DQA
> Loss ℒ
> Benign Client
> Model Backpropagation
> Server
> Client
> Gradients ∇θ𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡
> Document Template ො𝑥 𝐷
> Reconstructed Question 𝑥 𝑄
> “What is the advertiser ’s name? ”
> Reconstructed Answer 𝑦
> “Priorities USA Action ”
> DQA Model 𝑓 𝜃 Predicted
> Answer ො𝑦
> “”DQA
> Loss ℒ
> Model Backpropagation
> Adversary
> Adversary
> Gradients ∇θ𝑎𝑑𝑣 ℒ𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑 ∇θ𝑎𝑑𝑣 ,∇θ𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡
> +𝛾 ⋅ℛ𝑎𝑢𝑥
> Adversary Loss
> Attacker Backpropagation and pixels update

Figure 2: Overview of the FL setup with a benign client and an honest-but-curious attacker. The benign client computes gradients on their private document and shares them with the server, where the attacker is positioned. The attacker, equipped with a document template (without private data), computes their own gradients and optimizes a loss function comprising gradient matching and auxiliary priors to reconstruct the client’s document. 

∇kθt shared by the client, (ii) the current model parame-ters θt, and (iii) a collection of publicly available document image templates ( e.g. , healthcare forms), which represent standard formats with private fields (such as names, dates, or amounts) left empty. These templates provide additional structural and contextual information that closely resemble the input documents, significantly narrowing the adversary’s search space. This allows the adversary to focus on specific regions of interest within the documents, such as fields where private information is typically located. In many document-based applications, such as invoices, medical forms, boarding passes, or receipts, the layout and struc-ture are highly standardized across users, with only a small number of sensitive fields varying. Therefore, this setup is practically grounded and reflects realistic scenarios. Fig-ure 2 presents an overview of the attack pipeline. 

Adversary’s Objective. The adversary aims to reconstruct the private fields contained within the client’s documents. These private fields may include personally identifiable in-formation (PII), such as names ( e.g. , patients), ID numbers (e.g. , SSNs), financial details ( e.g. , account balances), and sensitive textual data ( e.g. , medical diagnoses). The adver-sary seeks to exploit both the structure of the document ( i.e. ,templates) and contextual information encoded in the shared gradients. This combination of prior knowledge and gradi-ent leakage significantly increases the likelihood of a privacy breach, posing a serious threat to client confidentiality. 

3.3. Multimodal Gradient Inversion Attack 

In this section, we describe our proposed approach, which consists of two components: document reconstruction and text reconstruction. The document reconstruction follows an optimization-based approach, while the text reconstruction employs an analytic-based approach. Prior work on image classification models has demonstrated that using the ground truth label y (rather than a randomly initialized one) significantly improves the quality of recon-struction (Zhao et al., 2020). This improvement is achieved by leveraging the negative sign traces of the gradient in the classification head. The enhancement arises because the computed gradients depend on the loss function, which is di-rectly influenced by the ground-truth label, thereby reducing the distance between the adversary’s and client’s gradients and simplifying the optimization process. However, in our case, as we employ question-answering models, this ap-proach is not applicable. Furthermore, the input x in our setting comprises both the document xD and its correspond-ing question xQ. The input question xQ also affects the calculated gradients, as it provides contextual information that guides the model to understand the relationship between the document xD and the target answer y. Consequently, reconstructing both the question xQ and the answer y is crit-ical for the success of the attack (discussed in Section 4.2.2). To achieve this, we build on previous works that propose analytic-based methods to first extract the question-answer pairs (Petrov et al., 2024; Deng et al., 2021; Balunovic et al., 2022). Once these pairs are reconstructed, we then optimize the document reconstruction to refine the overall results. 3.3.1. D OCUMENT RECONSTRUCTION 

For visual text reconstruction, we propose the following optimization objective: 

ˆx∗ = arg min  

> ˆx

Lgrad (∇L (θ, ˆx, ˆy), ∇kθt) + φ(t)Raux 

Raux = αtxt Rtxt + αgau Rgau + αTV RTV 

(4) where Lgrad represents the matching loss, and Raux is a set of auxiliary priors. The scheduling term φ(t) dynamically 4Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

adjusts the influence of the auxiliary priors throughout the optimization process. We incorporate three auxiliary priors to improve reconstruction fidelity: (i) a visual text prior based on the Laplacian filter, which enhances fine-grained text boundaries, (ii) a Gaussian prior, which encourages spatial smoothness and reduces high-frequency noise, and 

(iii) a total variation (TV) prior, which combines spatial smoothness with a channel-wise consistency constraint that encourages grayscale reconstructions, aligning with the typ-ical appearance of text and background in documents. In the remainder of this section, we describe each prior and scheduler in detail. 

Gradient Matching. The gradient matching loss serves as the primary component of the optimization, minimizing the discrepancy between the client’s gradients and those of the adversary. Previous works have used distance metrics such as Euclidean distance and cosine similarity. In our approach, we combine both metrics for improved effectiveness: Eu-clidean distance is used to account for the magnitude of the gradient vectors, while cosine similarity attends to their directional alignment. This loss is defined as: 

Lgrad = X

> l

LMSE 



∇lL(θ, ˆx, ˆy), ∇lkθt



+

LCS 



∇lL(θ, ˆx, ˆy), ∇lkθt



(5) where l denotes the l-th layer, LMSE is the mean squared loss, and LCS is the cosine similarity loss. 

Visual Text Prior. Accurately reconstructing small-sized words ( ∼1% of the full image) is a highly challenging task due to their minimal contribution to the overall gradient and their low visibility in the reconstructed image. To address this, we introduce a new text prior based on the Laplacian fil-ter (Paris et al., 2011). The Laplacian filter is a second-order derivative filter that emphasizes regions of rapid intensity changes in an image, such as edges and fine-grained details. It is particularly effective for extracting high-frequency fea-tures, such as the boundaries of text and intricate patterns, which are crucial for reconstructing specific word details. The discrete form of the Laplacian filter measures the sum of curvature in both the horizontal and vertical directions, which is expressed as: 

∇2 ˆxD (i, j ) = ∂2 ˆxD

∂i 2 + ∂2 ˆxD

∂j 2 (6) where ∂2 ˆxD 

> ∂i 2

and ∂2 ˆxD 

> ∂j 2

are the second derivatives of the image intensity ˆxD with respect to spatial coordinates i and 

j. In practice, the Laplacian filter is implemented using a convolution operation with a fixed kernel: 

Rtxt ( ˆ xD ) = 1

| ˆxD |

X

> i

X

> j

|(Klap ∗ ˆxD )( i, j )|

Klap =



0 −1 0

−1 4 −10 −1 0



(7) where KLap is the 4-neighbor Laplacian kernel, (Klap ∗

ˆxD )( i, j ) is the convolution operation at a specific pixel 

(i, j ), and | ˆxD | is the total number of pixels in the image. 

Gaussian Prior. To enhance the reconstruction quality of fine-grained details, we introduce a Gaussian prior, which leverages the properties of a Gaussian smoothing filter to regularize the optimization process. The Gaussian prior enforces spatial consistency by penalizing high-frequency noise while preserving key structures, such as edges and text regions, acting as a low-pass filter. Similar to the Laplacian filter, the Gaussian filter is implemented using a convolution operation with a Gaussian kernel: 

Rgau ( ˆ xD ) = 1

| ˆxD |

X

> i

X

> j

|(Kgau ∗ ˆxD )( i, j ) − ˆxD (i, j )|

Kgau (i, j ) = 12πσ 2 exp 



− i2 + j2

2σ2



(8) By applying the Gaussian filter to the reconstructed image and computing the difference with the unfiltered one, this prior quantifies deviations in smoothness. This encourages the optimization to focus on preserving the natural smooth-ness of the input image while avoiding overfitting to noise or artifacts. The Gaussian prior is particularly effective for ensuring smoother transitions in reconstructed document regions, facilitating a more realistic and accurate recon-struction. Compared to the commonly used total variation prior (Chambolle et al., 2010), which focuses on differences between neighboring pixel values, the Gaussian prior applies a smoothing filter globally across larger regions, reducing variations uniformly, including at edges. 

Total Variation Prior. The TV prior is widely used in image reconstruction tasks to enforce smoothness while pre-serving important structures. Following prior works (Geip-ing et al., 2020; Hatamizadeh et al., 2022), we adopt the standard spatial TV formulation, which measures the varia-tion between neighboring pixels in the spatial dimensions of an image ( i.e. , width and height). For an image ˆxD with spatial dimensions (i, j ), the spatial TV is defined as: 

RTV-S ( ˆ xD ) = X

> i,j

| ˆxD (i+1 ,j ) − ˆxD (i,j )|+

| ˆxD (i,j +1) − ˆxD (i,j )| (9) 5Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Figure 3: Color palette where the RGB channels have iden-tical intensity (R=G=B). The palette ranges from black (R=G=B=0) to white (R=G=B=255), illustrating colors that vary solely in brightness without hue or saturation. This reflects the effect of the TV channel prior, which enforces RGB consistency and promotes grayscale reconstructions, aligning with the typical appearance of text and backgrounds in documents. In addition to spatial smoothness, we introduce a channel TV prior, which operates on the color channels ( i.e. , red, green, and blue) at each pixel. The channel TV penalizes variations in color intensity within a pixel across the RGB channels, helping suppress chromatic artifacts and reduc-ing color noise. For an image where the RGB channels are forced to have equal intensity (R=G=B), the resulting colors belong to the grayscale spectrum. This spectrum consists of shades that vary only in brightness, ranging from black (R=G=B=0) to white (R=G=B=1), without any hue or saturation, as shown in Figure 3. The channel TV prior leverages this property to encourage grayscale consistency across the reconstructed image, aligning with the nature of text reconstruction tasks, where content ( e.g. , text or back-ground) is predominantly black, white, or gray. The channel TV is defined as: 

RTV-C ( ˆ xD ) = X

> i,j

| ˆxD (i,j,R ) − ˆxD (i,j,G )|+

| ˆxD (i,j,G ) − ˆxD (i,j,B )| + | ˆxD (i,j,B ) − ˆxD (i,j,R )| (10) Combining both spatial and channel priors, the overall TV prior is expressed as: 

RTV ( ˆ xD ) = RTV-S ( ˆ xD ) + RTV-C ( ˆ xD ) (11) By combining spatial and channel priors, the overall TV prior enforces both local smoothness across neighboring pixels and consistency in color channels. The inclusion of the channel TV prior ensures that reconstructed images adhere to the grayscale spectrum, effectively promoting natural and visually coherent reconstructions that align with the characteristics of text or background. 

Priors Scheduler. Unlike prior work (Hatamizadeh et al., 2022) that delayed the activation of auxiliary priors until later stages of optimization to avoid suboptimal conver-gence, we propose a scheduler that assigns high weights to priors early in training. This approach stems from our obser-vation that auxiliary priors play a critical role in stabilizing the early stages of optimization, where the synthesized in-puts are far from convergence. By emphasizing priors early on, our scheduler ensures that the optimization process is guided toward realistic reconstructions from the start. We adopt an exponential decay strategy for φ(t), defined as 

φ(t) = α exp( −λt ), where α is the initial weighting coeffi-cient and λ is the scaling factor that determines the decay rate. This allows the contribution of auxiliary priors to diminish gradually as optimization progresses, letting the gradient matching loss take precedence in later stages for fine-tuning. This shift enables the priors to shape the overall structure early on, while the gradient matching loss refines details as optimization converges. 

# 4. Evaluation 

4.1. Evaluation Setup Models. We use state-of-the-art DQA models, covering both OCR-free and OCR-based models: (i) Document Understanding Transformer ( Donut ) (Kim et al., 2022) - an OCR-free model that employs a transformer-based encoder-decoder architecture. Consists of a vision encoder (Swin Transformer (Liu et al., 2021)) and a text decoder (BART (Lewis, 2019)). We use the base-size model with 156M parameters. (ii) LayoutLMv3 (Huang et al., 2022) - an OCR-based model and the latest version of the Lay-outLM family models (Xu et al., 2020a), which employs a transformer-based architecture with visual patch embed-dings and incorporates textual input along with bounding box coordinates for spatial context ( i.e. , OCR). We use the base-size model, which consists of 133M parameters. 

Datasets. We use the PFL-DocVQA (Tito et al., 2024) dataset, designed to perform DocVQA in a FL environment, with the aim of exposing privacy leakage issues in a realis-tic scenario. It comprises invoice document images and a set of question/answer pairs. The documents contain sensi-tive data of the invoice provider identity, including provider name, address, and other sensitive fields. For our experi-ments, we use a subset of the original dataset containing 395 documents. The subset includes 90 templates, each with approximately five distinct documents (the sensitive data differs between the documents of the same template). 

Metrics. In our evaluation, performance is measured with metrics commonly used in the visual gradient inversion do-main (Hatamizadeh et al., 2022; Lu et al., 2021; Geiping et al., 2020): (i) Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) - qual-ity of reconstructed images by quantifying the ratio between the maximum possible signal value and the distortion intro-duced by the reconstruction. (ii) Cosine similarity in the Fourier space ( FFT 2D ) - similarity between the original and reconstructed images in the frequency domain. (iii) 

Mean Squared Error (MSE) - average squared difference between corresponding pixels in the original and recon-structed images. 6Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Table 1: Main results. Evaluation of our attack and prior works on the Donut and LayoutLMv3 models. ↓ indicates that lower values are better, and ↑ indicates that higher values are better. Bold indicates superior results. Method Donut LayoutLMv3 PSNR ↑ FFT 2D ↓ MSE ↓ Binary ↑ Fuzz Ratio ↑ PSNR ↑ FFT 2D ↓ MSE ↓ Binary ↑ Fuzz Ratio ↑                                                            

> Random 6.989 0.113 96.591 0% 07.041 0.124 105.169 0.9% 0DLG (Zhu et al., 2019) 6.984 0.110 96.574 0% 0.001 7.015 0.127 105.185 1.1% 0iDLG (Zhao et al., 2020) 6.984 0.110 96.574 0% 0.001 7.015 0.127 105.185 1.1% 0Inverting Gradients (Geiping et al., 2020) 11.386 0.042 95.314 0% 0.006 10.596 0.044 98.281 0% 0APRIL (Lu et al., 2021) 13.652 0.027 85.329 5.8% 0.283 9.825 0.060 98.946 0.6% 0GI-DQA (Ours) 24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909 22.713 0.005 72.508 82.1% 0.681

Table 2: Effect of different loss components on the recon-struction quality. ↓ indicates that lower values are better, and ↑ indicates that higher values are better.                                     

> Loss Reconstruction Metrics Component PSNR ↑FFT 2D ↓MSE ↓Binary ↑Fuzz Ratio ↑Lgrad 17.872 0.012 75.008 42.6% 0.759
> +RTV-C 22.555 0.006 63.823 61.0% 0.856
> +RTV-S 24.540 0.003 58.063 70.2% 0.894
> +Rtxt 23.855 0.003 61.655 70.6% 0.913
> +Rgau 24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909

Lgrad +RTV-C +RTV-S +Rtxt +Rgau Original We also include metrics specifically designed for the DQA domain and visual text reconstruction. To achieve this, we use Trocr (Li et al., 2023), an OCR model to extract the re-constructed text, and measure: (i) Exact Match (Binary) -percentage of text segments that are perfectly reconstructed, reflecting the attack’s ability to recover textual information without any character-level errors. (ii) Fuzz Ratio (FR) - A similarity score based on character-level differences using fuzzy string matching, allowing for a more flexible evalu-ation of partial reconstructions where minor distortions or OCR errors may still preserve semantic meaning. This ap-proach evaluates the attack’s effectiveness in an automated end-to-end scenario. 

Implementation Details. The optimized pixels in the recon-structed document image are randomly initialized and up-dated using the Adam optimizer with an initial learning rate of 2.0, applying exponential decay with a rate of λ = 0 .999 

over 5,000 iterations. The auxiliary loss terms (Equation 4) are weighted using the coefficients αtxt = 0 .1, αgau = 0 .01 ,and αTV = 0 .1. These values were selected using the grid search approach over the values {0, 0.001 , 0.01 , 0.1, 1}, op-timizing for PSNR performance. 

4.2. Results 

Here, we present the results for our proposed attack. We report additional results in Appendix A.1 and provide exam-ples of reconstructed documents in Appendix A.3. 4.2.1. A TTACK EFFECTIVENESS 

Table 1 presents the results of our proposed attack in com-parison to prior works, including DLG (Zhu et al., 2019), iDLG (Zhao et al., 2020), Inverting Gradients (Geiping et al., 2020), and APRIL (Lu et al., 2021). As shown, existing methods designed for unimodal models fail to reconstruct meaningful content when applied to multimodal architec-tures. DLG and iDLG attack performance is identical to that of a random baseline. Even APRIL, which is designed for transformer-based models, lacks the capability to capture the intricate interactions between visual and textual modal-ities, leading to incomplete or incoherent reconstructions. These methods struggle to extract fine-grained document features, as they are not designed to handle the fusion of structured text and image embeddings present in multimodal systems. In contrast, our proposed attack effectively exploits the unique properties of multimodal DQA models, leverag-ing both pre-fusion gradients (explained in Section 5) and cross-modal dependencies to reconstruct sensitive document content with significantly higher fidelity. Furthermore, our approach is specifically designed to better fit the domain of visual text, ensuring more accurate recovery of structured textual elements that are critical in documents. For example, on the Donut model, our approach accurately reconstructs 70.1% of the set of words in all the documents combined, compared to 5.8% in APRIL, demonstrating its effective-ness in recovering fine-grained textual details. Examples are shown in Figure 4. 4.2.2. A BLATION STUDIES 

Priors Effect. We analyze the contribution of each train-ing loss term by evaluating its impact on reconstruction quality. Table 2 presents these results, providing quantita-tive comparisons alongside qualitative examples to illustrate their effectiveness. We observe that while optimizing Lgrad 

alone enables partial reconstruction, it struggles to eliminate the random noise introduced by the adversary’s document initialization, achieving a binary match of 42.6%. Intro-ducing the channel-wise total variation prior RTV-C yields a substantial improvement, increasing the binary accuracy to 61.0% and the PSNR to 22.56 by promoting grayscale con-sistency and reducing chromatic noise. Adding spatial TV 7Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Original Censored Inverting Gradients APRIL GI-DQA (Ours) 

Figure 4: Examples of zoomed-in sections of documents where private information is reconstructed using different gradient inversion techniques on the Donut model. Censored represents the document with redacted private data, which serves as the adversary’s initial reference before optimization. prior RTV-S further enhances smoothness across neighbor-ing pixels, leading to the best overall PSNR of 24.54, which indicates its strong contribution to local structural coherence. The text prior Rtxt slightly improves the binary match and fuzz ratio, sharpening edges and enhancing text legibility. The Gaussian prior Rgau helps suppress the remaining high-frequency noise, leading to an improved PSNR over Rtxt ,stabilizing the reconstruction, and maintaining performance gains across all metrics. 

Question-Answer Effect. As discussed in Section 3.3, the effectiveness of document reconstruction depends on prior access to the question-answer (QA) pair. Table 3 evaluates the attack’s performance under different attacker knowledge scenarios: (i) black-box setting – both the question and an-swer are unknown (random tokens are used). (ii) gray-box setting – only one of the question or answer is known. (iii) 

white-box setting – both the question and answer are ac-curately reconstructed and used in the attack. The results demonstrate that document reconstruction is infeasible with-out first recovering both the question and answer, even when one component is known. In contrast, when the question-answer pair is fully known, the attack significantly improves, enabling the successful reconstruction of private document details. This reliance on the question-answer pair high-lights a unique characteristic of multimodal models, where the fusion of different modalities plays a crucial role in pre-serving and extracting information. Unlike unimodal attacks that rely solely on direct feature recovery, multimodal gradi-ent inversion depends on cross-modal interactions, making the reconstruction process inherently dependent on both textual and visual components. Although the answer in the QA pair may contain a piece of personally identifiable in-Table 3: Impact of question and answer knowledge on doc-ument reconstruction ability. ↓ indicates that lower values are better, and ↑ indicates that higher values are better.                                           

> *Original question and answer were replaced with random tokens.
> Known Reconstruction Metrics
> Question Answer PSNR ↑FFT 2D ↓MSE ↓Binary ↑Fuzz Ratio ↑
> ✘✘5.237 0.196 87.212 0.8% 0
> ✘✔6.956 0.124 88.743 0.7% 0
> ✔✘5.240 0.195 87.207 1.0% 0
> ✔✔24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909
> ✔*✔*24.439 0.002 59.677 71.9% 0.920

formation (PII), it typically reflects only a small portion of the overall sensitive content. Additional PII fields, unmen-tioned in the QA, can still be inferred from the gradients (further discussed in the following section). Interestingly, our findings reveal that the semantic content of the question and answer is not critical to the attack’s success. Instead, effective document reconstruction relies on the adversary having access to the exact token identities and their posi-tions used by the client, regardless of their meaning. To demonstrate this, we replaced the original QA pair with ran-dom tokens of the same length and structure. The resulting reconstructions showed nearly identical quality across all metrics, as shown in Table 3 (bottom row). This indicates that gradient inversion exploits the precise token represen-tations encoded in the model’s gradients, rather than their semantic interpretation. 

Training Stage Effect. We conduct a systematic evalua-tion of the attack’s effectiveness at different stages of model training to understand how the evolution of learned represen-tations influences reconstruction quality. Our findings reveal a clear trend: as the model becomes more optimized, inver-8Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

06 

/

05 

/

22 

Figure 5: Cross-attention maps from the decoder for the input “06/05/22” split into tokens in a fine-tuned model (left) and a randomly initialized model (right). The fine-tuned model exhibits sharply focused attention, while the randomly initialized model attends to broader regions, en-abling more recoverable information during inversion. sion quality degrades significantly (full results can be found in Appendix A.1.2). This suggests that, early in training, the model encodes a broader and more spatially distributed set of features, as its cross-attention tends to be more diffuse and less focused on specific regions. In contrast, as train-ing progresses, attention and token representations become increasingly concentrated on task-relevant areas, particu-larly those directly associated with the question and answer, thereby narrowing the gradient signal, as shown in Figure 5. This focused representation reduces the diversity of infor-mation available in the gradients, making it more difficult to reconstruct PII beyond the QA scope. This observation also helps explain why our attack remains effective even when QA tokens are replaced with random tokens, as long as the adversary has access to the same input tokens. 

# 5. Discussion 

A key aspect of understanding privacy risks in multimodal models is identifying which gradients are most susceptible to inversion. In our analysis, we find that only a subset of the gradients meaningfully contribute to successful reconstruc-tion. Multimodal vision-language models typically follow three stages: (i) extracting features from visual and tex-tual inputs, (ii) fusing these modalities, and (iii) generating the output. Our findings show that gradients from the pre-fusion stage, where the model still processes each modality independently, carry the most informative signal for recon-struction. In contrast, post-fusion gradients are significantly less revealing. In Donut, relying only on post-fusion gradi-ents makes reconstruction slower and less accurate, while in LayoutLMv3, reconstruction fails entirely. These findings suggest that multimodal fusion acts as an implicit safeguard. Post-fusion gradients lack the fine-grained details of the input document, indicating that future privacy-preserving strategies may focus on protecting pre-fusion layers rather than all layers indiscriminately. 

# 6. Defense 

In response to the threats posed by GI-DQA, we introduce 

Safe Template , a mitigation strategy that targets the adver-sary’s dependence on publicly available document templates. Since organizations control these templates, they can proac-tively embed subtle, human-imperceptible perturbations into published versions to hinder reconstruction efforts. This de-fense is based on a key insight: gradient inversion attacks heavily depend on gradient matching, wherein the adversary aligns their reconstructions with the observed shared gradi-ents. By maximizing gradient divergence at the input level, 

Safe Template disrupts this alignment without altering the vi-sual appearance of the document. Unlike prior defenses that manipulate or obfuscate the gradients themselves (Li et al., 2022; Zhu et al., 2019), Safe Template perturbs the input images used to compute those gradients. We evaluate two strategies for introducing perturbations: (i) random noise, and (ii) adversarial noise crafted using projected gradient descent (PGD) (Madry et al., 2017), with a custom objective 

Ldefender = −L grad that explicitly maximizes gradient diver-gence. Both approaches prove to be effective in reducing the success of the attack. Random noise is effective for ϵ > 32 255 ,while PGD-based perturbations provide comparable defense even at ϵ > 8255 , where ϵ denotes the perturbation budget, which controls the intensity of modifications applied to the images. Importantly, Safe Template is applied offline, im-poses no computational overhead on the training process, and preserves full model utility, since benign clients train on clean, unmodified documents. This makes it a lightweight and practical defense for safeguarding multimodal FL sys-tems. For detailed results and analysis, see Appendix A.2. 

# 7. Conclusion 

In this work, we introduced GI-DQA, a gradient inversion attack that reveals critical privacy vulnerabilities in multi-modal federated learning (FL) systems. By exploiting pre-fusion gradients and cross-modal interactions, GI-DQA suc-cessfully reconstructs private document content, exposing a significant threat overlooked by prior unimodal approaches, which fail in such settings. To address this risk, we proposed 

Safe Template , an input-level defense that perturbs shared templates to disrupt gradient alignment, effectively mitigat-ing inversion without affecting model utility. Our findings underscore the need for privacy-aware architectural design and robust defensive strategies in multimodal FL deploy-ments. Future work should investigate adaptive defenses and training protocols that preserve both utility and privacy in cross-modal learning environments. 9Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

# Impact Statement 

This paper presents a study on gradient inversion attacks in FL, specifically targeting DQA models. Our work exposes significant privacy vulnerabilities in FL systems, particularly in scenarios where sensitive document data are involved, such as medical records, financial statements, and legal contracts. 

Potential Ethical Concerns. Federated learning, despite its privacy-preserving design, remains susceptible to gradi-ent inversion attacks that can reconstruct private training data, posing a risk to individuals whose confidential infor-mation may be leaked. This is especially concerning for applications involving sensitive or personal documents. Al-thoughugh our research aims to improve the security of FL systems by exposing these vulnerabilities, it also carries the risk of adversarial actors misusing our findings to develop more effective attacks against real-world deployments. 

Mitigation and Responsible Use. Our work underscores the urgent need for robust defenses, such as gradient ob-fuscation techniques, differential privacy mechanisms, and secure aggregation strategies, to mitigate the identified risks. We also present a defense mechanism to mitigate the risks posed by such attacks. We encourage the research commu-nity to use our findings to strengthen privacy-preserving methods in FL rather than to exploit them maliciously. Fur-thermore, we adhere to responsible disclosure practices and have framed our research in a way that prioritizes defense-oriented contributions. 

Broader Societal Implications. By demonstrating vulnera-bilities in multimodal FL systems, we contribute to ongoing efforts to enhance the security and privacy of decentral-ized machine learning frameworks. Furthermore, our study informs policymakers, developers, and researchers about potential risks in privacy-sensitive AI applications, helping to shape future regulatory and technical safeguards. In con-clusion, this research seeks to advance the field of machine learning by improving the understanding of privacy risks in FL, with the ultimate goal of fostering more secure and privacy-aware AI systems. 

# References 

Balunovic, M., Dimitrov, D., Jovanovi ´c, N., and Vechev, M. Lamp: Extracting text from gradients with language model priors. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 35:7641–7654, 2022. Banabilah, S., Aloqaily, M., Alsayed, E., Malik, N., and Jararweh, Y. Federated learning review: Fundamentals, enabling technologies, and future applications. Informa-tion processing & management , 59(6):103061, 2022. Chambolle, A., Caselles, V., Cremers, D., Novaga, M., Pock, T., et al. An introduction to total variation for image analysis. Theoretical foundations and numerical methods for sparse recovery , 9(263-340):227, 2010. Chu, H.-M., Geiping, J., Fowl, L. H., Goldblum, M., and Goldstein, T. Panning for gold in federated learning: Targeted text extraction under arbitrarily large-scale ag-gregation. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations , 2022. Davis, B., Morse, B., Price, B., Tensmeyer, C., Wigington, C., and Morariu, V. End-to-end document recognition and understanding with dessurt. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pp. 280–296. Springer, 2022. Deng, J., Wang, Y., Li, J., Shang, C., Liu, H., Rajasekaran, S., and Ding, C. Tag: Gradient attack on transformer-based language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.06819 ,2021. Du, J., Hu, J., Wang, Z., Sun, P., Gong, N. Z., and Ren, K. Sok: Gradient leakage in federated learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.05403 , 2024. Fan, L., Ng, K. W., Ju, C., Zhang, T., Liu, C., Chan, C. S., and Yang, Q. Rethinking privacy preserving deep learn-ing: How to evaluate and thwart privacy attacks. Feder-ated Learning: Privacy and Incentive , pp. 32–50, 2020. Fowl, L., Geiping, J., Czaja, W., Goldblum, M., and Gold-stein, T. Robbing the fed: Directly obtaining private data in federated learning with modified models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.13057 , 2021. Fowl, L., Geiping, J., Reich, S., Wen, Y., Czaja, W., Gold-blum, M., and Goldstein, T. Decepticons: Corrupted transformers breach privacy in federated learning for lan-guage models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.12675 , 2022. Geiping, J., Bauermeister, H., Dr ¨oge, H., and Moeller, M. Inverting gradients-how easy is it to break privacy in federated learning? Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:16937–16947, 2020. Gupta, S., Huang, Y., Zhong, Z., Gao, T., Li, K., and Chen, D. Recovering private text in federated learning of lan-guage models. Advances in neural information process-ing systems , 35:8130–8143, 2022. Hatamizadeh, A., Yin, H., Roth, H. R., Li, W., Kautz, J., Xu, D., and Molchanov, P. Gradvit: Gradient inversion of vision transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,pp. 10021–10030, 2022. He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J. Deep residual learn-ing for image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ,pp. 770–778, 2016. 10 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Huang, Y., Lv, T., Cui, L., Lu, Y., and Wei, F. Layoutlmv3: Pre-training for document ai with unified text and image masking. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Multimedia , pp. 4083–4091, 2022. Kim, G., Hong, T., Yim, M., Nam, J., Park, J., Yim, J., Hwang, W., Yun, S., Han, D., and Park, S. Ocr-free docu-ment understanding transformer. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pp. 498–517. Springer, 2022. Lee, K., Joshi, M., Turc, I. R., Hu, H., Liu, F., Eisensch-los, J. M., Khandelwal, U., Shaw, P., Chang, M.-W., and Toutanova, K. Pix2struct: Screenshot parsing as pretraining for visual language understanding. In Inter-national Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 18893– 18912. PMLR, 2023. Lewis, M. Bart: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.13461 , 2019. Li, M., Lv, T., Chen, J., Cui, L., Lu, Y., Florencio, D., Zhang, C., Li, Z., and Wei, F. Trocr: Transformer-based optical character recognition with pre-trained models. In 

Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence , volume 37, pp. 13094–13102, 2023. Li, Z., Zhang, J., Liu, L., and Liu, J. Auditing privacy defenses in federated learning via generative gradient leakage. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pp. 10132– 10142, 2022. Liu, X., Cai, S., He, R., and Yuan, J. Mutual gradient inversion: Unveiling privacy risks of federated learning on multi-modal signals. IEEE Signal Processing Letters ,2024. Liu, Z., Lin, Y., Cao, Y., Hu, H., Wei, Y., Zhang, Z., Lin, S., and Guo, B. Swin transformer: Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted windows. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision ,pp. 10012–10022, 2021. Lu, J., Zhang, X. S., Zhao, T., He, X., and Cheng, J. April: finding the achilles’ heel on privacy for vision transform-ers. in 2022 ieee. In CVF Conference on Computer Vi-sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pp. 10041–10050, 2021. Madry, A., Makelov, A., Schmidt, L., Tsipras, D., and Vladu, A. Towards deep learning models resistant to adversarial attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.06083 ,2017. McMahan, B., Moore, E., Ramage, D., Hampson, S., and y Arcas, B. A. Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentralized data. In Artificial intelli-gence and statistics , pp. 1273–1282. PMLR, 2017. Nguyen, K. and Karatzas, D. Federated document visual question answering: A pilot study. In International Con-ference on Document Analysis and Recognition , pp. 146– 163. Springer, 2024. Paris, S., Hasinoff, S. W., and Kautz, J. Local laplacian filters: Edge-aware image processing with a laplacian pyramid. ACM Trans. Graph. , 30(4):68, 2011. Pasquini, D., Francati, D., and Ateniese, G. Eluding secure aggregation in federated learning via model inconsistency. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pp. 2429–2443, 2022. Paulik, M., Seigel, M., Mason, H., Telaar, D., Kluivers, J., van Dalen, R., Lau, C. W., Carlson, L., Granqvist, F., Vandevelde, C., et al. Federated evaluation and tuning for on-device personalization: System design & applications. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.08503 , 2021. Petrov, I., Dimitrov, D. I., Baader, M., M ¨uller, M. N., and Vechev, M. Dager: Exact gradient inversion for large lan-guage models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.15586 , 2024. Powalski, R., Borchmann, Ł., Jurkiewicz, D., Dwojak, T., Pietruszka, M., and Pałka, G. Going full-tilt boogie on document understanding with text-image-layout trans-former. In Document Analysis and Recognition–ICDAR 2021: 16th International Conference, Lausanne, Switzer-land, September 5–10, 2021, Proceedings, Part II 16 , pp. 732–747. Springer, 2021. Shi, Y., Song, H., and Xu, J. Responsible and effective federated learning in financial services: A comprehensive survey. In 2023 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) , pp. 4229–4236. IEEE, 2023. Tang, Z., Yang, Z., Wang, G., Fang, Y., Liu, Y., Zhu, C., Zeng, M., Zhang, C., and Bansal, M. Unifying vision, text, and layout for universal document processing. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pp. 19254–19264, 2023. Thrasher, J., Devkota, A., Siwakotai, P., Chivukula, R., Poudel, P., Hu, C., Bhattarai, B., and Gyawali, P. Multi-modal federated learning in healthcare: a review. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.09650 , 2023. Tito, R., Nguyen, K., Tobaben, M., Kerkouche, R., Souibgui, M. A., Jung, K., J ¨alk ¨o, J., D’Andecy, V. P., Joseph, A., Kang, L., et al. Privacy-aware document visual question answering. In International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition , pp. 199–218. Springer, 2024. Wang, X., Chen, G., Qian, G., Gao, P., Wei, X.-Y., Wang, Y., Tian, Y., and Gao, W. Large-scale multi-modal pre-trained models: A comprehensive survey. Machine Intel-ligence Research , 20(4):447–482, 2023. 11 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Wen, Y., Geiping, J., Fowl, L., Goldblum, M., and Gold-stein, T. Fishing for user data in large-batch feder-ated learning via gradient magnification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.00580 , 2022. Xu, Y., Li, M., Cui, L., Huang, S., Wei, F., and Zhou, M. Layoutlm: Pre-training of text and layout for document image understanding. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discov-ery & data mining , pp. 1192–1200, 2020a. Xu, Y., Xu, Y., Lv, T., Cui, L., Wei, F., Wang, G., Lu, Y., Florencio, D., Zhang, C., Che, W., et al. Layoutlmv2: Multi-modal pre-training for visually-rich document un-derstanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.14740 , 2020b. Yang, T., Andrew, G., Eichner, H., Sun, H., Li, W., Kong, N., Ramage, D., and Beaufays, F. Applied federated learning: Improving google keyboard query suggestions. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.02903 , 2018. Yin, H., Mallya, A., Vahdat, A., Alvarez, J. M., Kautz, J., and Molchanov, P. See through gradients: Image batch recovery via gradinversion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pp. 16337–16346, 2021. Zhao, B., Mopuri, K. R., and Bilen, H. idlg: Improved deep leakage from gradients. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.02610 ,2020. Zhu, J. and Blaschko, M. R-gap: Recursive gradient attack on privacy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.07733 , 2020. Zhu, L., Liu, Z., and Han, S. Deep leakage from gradients. 

Advances in neural information processing systems , 32, 2019. 12 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

# A. Appendix 

A.1. Additional Results 

A.1.1. A TTACK PERFORMANCE ON BATCHES 

Table 4: Effect of different batch sizes on the re-construction quality. ↓ indicates that lower values are better, and ↑ indicates that higher values are better.                           

> Batch Reconstruction Metrics Size PSNR ↑FFT 2D ↓MSE ↓Binary ↑Fuzz Ratio ↑
> 215.967 0.014 83.57 49.6% 0.452 47.155 0.132 90.461 0.7% 068.215 0.094 94.001 0.6% 0

We also examine the effect of different batch sizes on the quality of reconstruction, as it reflects a more complex scenario in which the shared gradients are averaged over the entire batch. In our experi-ments, we demonstrate the ability to reconstruct a single document when the shared gradients are computed using various batch sizes. Table 4 presents the results of the reconstruction using batch sizes of two, four, and six. Our experiments demonstrate that our attack remains effective when gradients are computed from up to two sam-ples, successfully reconstructing a single document in these cases. However, with larger batch sizes, the quality of reconstruction di-minishes. This effect stems from the nature of text-based gradients, which tend to be more sparser and localized compared to visual features. When gradients are averaged over larger batches, the document-specific signal becomes more diffused, making it harder to isolate fine-grained textual details. Nevertheless, despite this increased complexity, our approach remains capable of extracting meaningful information, demonstrating its robustness in multi-sample scenarios. A.1.2. T RAINING STAGE EFFECT 

As noted in Section 4.2.2, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of the attack at various stages of model training. As shown in Figure 6, the ability to reconstruct document pixels progressively degrades as the model converges. For example, at initialization (iteration 0), approximately 70.1% of words are perfectly reconstructed, whereas by iteration 30, the success rate drops below 10%. 

Figure 6: Attack success rate (Binary accuracy) as a function of training iteration. The results show a clear downward trend in reconstruction performance as the model converges. A.1.3. E FFECT OF PRIOR SCHEDULING STRATEGY 

To assess the impact of the prior scheduling strategy on reconstruction quality, we compare our proposed approach with two alternatives: (i) the delayed scheduling strategy of GradViT (Hatamizadeh et al., 2022), and (ii) a baseline without any scheduling mechanism, where prior weights are kept constant throughout the optimization. GradViT delays the introduction of auxiliary priors until the later stages, allowing the model to initially optimize solely based on the gradient matching loss. In contrast, our scheduler assigns higher weights to auxiliary priors during early iterations and gradually reduces their influence via an exponential decay schedule. This design aims to stabilize the early stages of optimization, especially in settings where the template reduces the gradient signal in sensitive regions, by encouraging visually coherent structures from the outset. Table 5 summarizes the results. Our scheduler is the only one to produce viable reconstructions, achieving strong visual and 13 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

semantic fidelity across all metrics. In contrast, both GradViT and the constant-weight baseline fail to guide the optimization meaningfully: GradViT’s delayed prior activation leads to noisy and fragmented outputs, while constant weighting results in low-fidelity reconstructions that collapse semantically ( i.e. , near-zero binary accuracy and fuzz ratio). These findings highlight the importance of strong early guidance from auxiliary priors when gradient signals are weak or ambiguous. Table 5: Comparison of prior scheduling strategies. Our early-weighted scheduler leads to significantly improved recon-structions across visual and semantic metrics. Scheduler PSNR ↑ FFT 2D ↓ MSE ↓ Binary ↑ Fuzz Ratio ↑

None 10.854 0.048 94.781 5.1% 0GradViT 8.871 0.080 79.440 0.1% 0.042 Ours 24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909 A.1.4. E FFECTIVENESS OF INDIVIDUAL PRIORS 

To better understand the role of each auxiliary prior in our reconstruction objective, we evaluate them independently rather than cumulatively (Section 4.2.2). Table 6 presents the results of optimizing each loss term in isolation. The Laplacian prior (Rtxt ) and the spatial TV prior ( RTV-S ) achieve the strongest overall performance, significantly improving both perceptual quality (highest PSNR) and textual fidelity (lowest fuzz ratio, highest binary match). The channel TV prior ( RTV-C ) also performs well, particularly in maintaining semantic consistency. In contrast, the Gaussian prior ( Rgau ) achieves relatively modest performance when used alone. However, this does not reflect its true value; when used in combination with other priors (as shown in our main ablation), it plays a critical role in stabilizing optimization and suppressing noise. Finally, attacks without any regularization ( Lgrad only) exhibit degraded results across all metrics, highlighting the necessity of auxiliary priors for successful reconstruction. Table 6: Performance of individual priors based on reconstruction metrics. 

Loss PSNR ↑ FFT 2D ↓ MSE ↓ Binary Test ↑ Fuzz Ratio ↑

Component 

Lgrad 17.872 0.012 75.008 42.6% 0.759 

Rgau 18.246 0.010 74.701 45.1% 0.771 

Rtxt 21.182 0.005 71.783 66.6% 0.896 

RTV-C 20.519 0.007 71.501 60.8% 0.874 

RTV-S 20.508 0.006 72.915 64.2% 0.888 All Combined 24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909 

A.2. Defense 

We propose Safe Template , a practical defense mechanism designed to mitigate gradient inversion attacks on multimodal models, particularly DQA models within FL setups. This defense is motivated by a key vulnerability exploited in our attack: the adversary’s access to publicly available document templates. These templates are frequently shared by organizations for standardization and accessibility purposes, and their consistent structure enables adversaries to significantly narrow the search space during reconstruction. The success of a gradient inversion attack depends on the similarity between gradients computed on the attacker’s reference template and those generated by the actual client. Safe Template disrupts this similarity by embedding small, targeted perturbations into publicly released templates, thereby diminishing their usefulness for adversarial inversion. A.2.1. D EFENSE OVERVIEW 

Safe Template introduces perturbations into the document template that maximize the distance between the gradients computed on clean versus perturbed inputs. These perturbations are generated offline, prior to FL training and do not interfere with client utility. The benign client continues to use the unperturbed document during FL training, ensuring model accuracy and gradient integrity. 14 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Algorithm 1 Safe Template 

Input: Model fθ , visual document xD , question xQ, answer yans , perturbation budget ϵ, norm p, step size α

Output: Perturbed Template 

1: δ := 0 

▷ Step 1: 

2: ˆyans = fθ (xD , x Q)

3: Lclean = ℓmodel (ˆ yans , y ans )

4: ∇θclean = ∂Lclean 

> ∂θ

▷ Step 2: 

5: repeat 

6: xper D = xD + δ

7: ˆyper = fθ (xper D , x Q)

8: Lper = ℓmodel (ˆ yper , y ans )

9: ∇θper = ∂Lper 

> ∂θ

▷ Step 3: 

10: Ldef = −L grad ▷ see Section 3.3.1 

11: ∇θdef = ∂Ldef 

> ∂θ

12: δ = Q

> || δ|| p<ϵ

(δ + α · sign (∇θdef )) 

13: until Convergence 

14: Return δ

The method consists of three steps, outlined in Algorithm 1, which can be summarized as follows: • Step 1: Clean Gradient Computation. Given a document-question pair (xD , x Q), the model performs a forward pass and predicts an answer ˆy. The loss is computed with respect to the ground-truth answer y, and the gradients ∇θclean are obtained by backpropagation. This step is performed once per template. • Step 2: Adversarial Gradient Computation. A perturbation δ is added to the document, yielding (xD + δ, x Q). The model performs a forward pass and backpropagation to compute ∇θper , the gradients on the perturbed template. • Step 3: Perturbation Update. The perturbation δ is optimized to maximize the gradient discrepancy, using the defender’s loss Ldef = −L grad . Gradients with respect to Ldefender are computed, and δ is updated via Projected Gradient Descent (PGD) to remain within an ℓp norm ball of radius ϵ:

δt+1 = Y

> ∥δ∥p≤ϵ

(δt + α · sign (∇L def )) ,

where α is the step size and Q denotes projection under norm constraint ∥ · ∥ p. Steps 2 and 3 are repeated iteratively until convergence. A.2.2. K EY PROPERTIES 

Safe Template provides several practical advantages: • Offline and Efficient. The perturbation generation process is performed once per template and does not interfere with FL training, making it computationally efficient. • Accuracy Preservation. Since benign clients use the original, unperturbed documents during training, model accuracy and utility are fully preserved. Gradients transmitted to the server remain unaffected. • Scalable and Deployable. Organizations can embed perturbations directly into the public template files they distribute, requiring no client-side or server-side modification. A.2.3. R ANDOM VS . A DVERSARIAL PERTURBATIONS 

To evaluate the robustness of SafeTemplate, we explore two strategies for perturbation generation: (i) adversarially crafted perturbations, and (ii) random noise; Both approaches modify document pixels directly in a way that remains imperceptible 15 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

to the human eye, preserving the visual integrity of the template. To investigate the trade-off between privacy and document fidelity, we experiment with varying perturbation budgets, denoted by ϵ, which control the maximum allowable pixel modification. Table 7 reports the effectiveness of both strategies on the Donut model. The results demonstrate that both methods substantially reduce the success of the attack. Random perturbations become effective at ϵ > 32 255 , lowering the reconstruction success rate to just 0.3%. In contrast, adversarial perturbations achieve similar protection at a much smaller budget ( ϵ > 8255 ), highlighting that even minimal, strategically crafted modifications are sufficient to disrupt gradient inversion. Table 7: ↓ indicates that lower values are better, and ↑ indicates that higher values are better. Bold indicates superior results. Strategy ϵ Reconstruction Metrics                                          

> PSNR ↓FFT 2D ↑MSE ↑Binary ↓Fuzz Ratio ↓
> No Defense -24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909 Random 12 /255 13.905 0.024 80.876 11.6% 0.064
> 32 /255 9.036 0.073 84.946 0.3% 0PGD
> 8/255 12.027 0.037 84.550 0.25% 0.01
> 12 /255 10.210 0.056 86.014 0.4% 0.002
> 16 /255 9.004 0.075 86.961 0.4% 0.001

A.2.4. FL WITH LOCAL DIFFERENTIAL PRIVACY (LDP) To assess the effectiveness of standard FL defenses, we conducted a complementary experiment simulating a typical LDP mechanism. Specifically, we added Gaussian noise directly to the shared gradients, a widely adopted strategy for per-client privacy preservation in FL. As shown in Table 8, increasing the noise scale σ leads to a gradual reduction in attack success. At lower noise levels ( σ = 1 · 10 −9 and 1 · 10 −8), the gradients still retain enough signal for partial reconstruction, with binary match rates around 44–46%. At a higher noise scale ( σ = 1 · 10 −7), the attack is largely neutralized, although this level of perturbation may adversely affect model convergence and utility in practice. These findings highlight the limitations of gradient-level defenses: stronger privacy comes at the cost of model performance. In contrast, Safe Template 

operates entirely at the input level without modifying gradients, preserving training stability while substantially degrading the adversary’s ability to extract sensitive information. Table 8: Effectiveness of LDP under different noise scales. Higher σ implies stronger noise added to shared gradients.                                     

> σPSNR ↓FFT 2D ↑MSE ↑Binary ↓Fuzz Ratio ↓
> No Defense 24.194 0.003 60.403 70.1% 0.909
> 1·10 −919.566 0.007 74.516 45.9% 0.786
> 1·10 −817.805 0.010 77.412 44.0% 0.825
> 1·10 −77.013 0.119 82.807 0% 0.001

A.3. Visualizations 

In Figure 7, we visualize full-sized reconstructed documents where private information is recovered. 16 Gradient Inversion of Multimodal Models 

Original Censored GI-DQA (Ours) 

Figure 7: Examples of documents where private information is reconstructed using our proposed attack. Censored represents the document with redacted private data, which serves as the adversary’s initial reference before optimization. 17