Title: Let My Data Go: Data Brokers' Compliance with Opt-Out and Deletion Requests

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.04552v1

Published Time: Tue, 07 Jul 2026 02:38:42 GMT

Number of Pages: 11

Markdown Content:
# Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests 

# Elina van Kempen 

UC Irvine 

# Gene Tsudik 

UC Irvine 

# Pragya Jhunjhunwala 

UC Irvine 

# Mihir Raja 

UC Irvine 

## Abstract 

Data brokers are a largely American phenomenon. They collect vast amounts of personal information about most adult U.S. consumers, mainly without the latter’s knowledge or consent. Accumulated data can be sold to anyone, including employers, landlords, insur-ance agencies, banks, governments (local, state, federal, and even foreign), as well as various malicious actors. This, in turn, enables discrimination, surveillance, identity theft, and stalking. Recent regulations – such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) modeled after EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) – were introduced to bolster consumer privacy, e.g., the rights to: (1) opt-out of the sharing or selling one’s personal infor-mation, (2) delete one’s personal information, and (3) obtain a copy of that information. However, exercising these rights is not easy, as shown by our comprehensive study of the data broker ecosystem. We submitted both opt-out and deletion requests (using synthetic consumer identities) under the CCPA to all California-registered data brokers and investigated their responses and lack thereof. While the majority seem to be compliant, a significant fraction is not and many failed to reply to (and/or acknowledge) consumer requests. Furthermore, some data brokers require intrusive con-sumer identity verification in order to exercise one’s opt-out rights, which is explicitly disallowed by the CCPA. There is also great disparity in the request submission process among data brokers as well as an extremely heavy (time & effort) overall consumer burden. This motivates an urgent need for streamlining and standardization of the consumer interface, stronger enforcement, and meaningful consequences for (especially sustained) non-compliance. 

## 1 Introduction 

Data brokers are business entities that collect a wide variety of con-sumers’ personal information, usually without the latter’s knowl-edge or consent, and sell that information to anyone willing to pay for it. It is estimated that there are over one thousand data brokers in the world, the majority of which are concentrated in the United States [ 14 , 35 ]. In fact, the entire concept was “born” in the United States during the mid-to-late 1980-s. 1

Anyone can buy consumer information from data brokers, in-cluding private individuals, as well as both foreign and domestic businesses and governments, including law enforcement and in-telligence agencies. Data collected by data brokers ranges from relatively benign contact information to much more sensitive data, such as health, financial, and even precise geolocation. 

> 1Perhaps unsurprisingly, it originated in the the State of Florida [17].

In recent times, a more dangerous trend has emerged: the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), particularly its Immigra-tion and Customs Enforcement (ICE) branch, has been purchasing information about American consumers from data brokers. This has been widely reported, e.g., by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the Electronic Frontiers Foundation (EFF) [ 32 ]. Although government agencies are not allowed to collect data about U.S. population, apparently they are not prohibited from buying it from commercial entities. Thus, data brokers pose a significant threat to consumers whose personal information is accumulated, then bought and accessed by numerous entites, some of which certainly do not have consumers’ best interest in mind, to put in mildly. Meanwhile, many (perhaps most) consumers are unaware of: (1) who collects their personal information, (2) what exactly is being collected, and (3) what, and to whom, information is sold. Recent privacy regulations across the world give consumers more agency over their personal information and guarantee certain rights, e.g. access one’s personal information, delete it, or opt-out of its sale and sharing. These regulations notably include European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [ 16 ], Califor-nia Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) [ 10 ], and Brazilian Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados (LGPD) [ 18 ], Furthermore, some regulations incorporate specific provisions for data brokers. In particular, Cal-ifornia’s Data Brokers Registration law [ 11 ] mandates that every data broker doing business in the state much register annually and pay a registration fee. The resulting list of registered data brokers is made publicly available [12]. With such a public list, residents of relevant jurisdictions can contact these data brokers and exercise their legal rights. However, exercising one’s rights can be complicated: contacting every single data broker is time-consuming, since there are many, plus methods of contact and user interfaces for submitting consumer requests vary widely. Moreover, getting a response to a consumer request is not guaranteed [31, 34]. Very recent prior work analyzed compliance and behavior of data brokers when submitting data access requests [ 34 ], and found that over 40% did not reply to well-formed requests. In addition, few had data about the subject consumer, i.e., the researcher who conducted the study. While data access requests yield important information about what kind of data is being collected by data brokers, delete and opt-out requests are, by far, much more common than access requests – respectively 58 and 99 million, compared to 4 million for all data brokers in 2024, according to the aggregation of most recent reported metrics in the broker registry [ 12 ]. This could mean a better compliance with delete/opt-out requests, and/or more  

> arXiv:2607.04552v1 [cs.CR] 5 Jul 2026 , , Van Kempen et al.

streamlined request handling processes, since such requests are very frequent. Motivated by the above, this paper reports on a comprehensive study of California-registered data brokers in the context of delete and opt-out requests. In a way, this work can be viewed as a nat-ural follow-on to [ 34 ]. It aims to answer the following research questions: 

• RQ1: What are the differences, if any, for a consumer in the submission process of opt-out vs. deletion requests? (E.g., in terms of methods of submission, user interfaces, etc.) 

• RQ2: To what extent do data brokers comply with the CCPA? 

• RQ3: What is the overall process for a consumer to submit all such requests? We note that delete and opt-out request types are semantically dif-ferent: the latter requires no identity verification and is thus submit-table by anyone, on anyone’s behalf. In contrast, deletion requests require identity verification. We systematically probe data brokers with both request types using synthetic (non-existent) consumer identities and analyze their responses. Results show (1) significant non-compliance, (2) wide variety of requirements for submitting requests, (3) erroneous responses, and (4) very heavy burden for an average consumer to interact with data brokers. This work aims to make three contributions: (1) It demonstrates a lack of transparency in data broker request processing, where the consumer is left unsure whether their request was even considered. (2) It yields evidence of recurrent CCPA non-compliance, whether due to ignorance, negligence, or malfeasance. (We make no conclusion about specific non-compliance reasons). (3) It highlights the inordinate amount of effort a consumer must invest into dealing with numerous data brokers, via a range of submissions methods, and a variety of user interfaces. 

Organization: The next section overviews relevant laws and cur-rent methods for the submission of consumer requests. Next, Sec-tion 3 summarizes prior work, followed by Section 4 which describes the setup and preliminaries of the study. Then, Section 5 discusses and analyzes study results. Next, Section 6 summarizes limitations and Section 7 outlines future work directions. 

## 2 Background 

This section describes the preliminaries, including relevant laws and regulations as well as various means of submitting consumer requests. 

## 2.1 Regulations 

Following the lead of European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [ 16 ], passed in 2016 and enforced since 2018, several privacy laws were passed in other jurisdictions. In particular, California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA) [ 10 ], voted in 2018 and effective since 2020, provides California residents rights over their personal information collected by business entities. The Act is accompanied by the CCPA Regulations [ 22 ]. Consumer rights include: 

• Deletion of personal information (CCPA §1798.105): This means that the requesting consumer’s data must be erased. Consumers can exercise this right by submitting a “Verifiable Consumer Request” (VCR) (CCPA §1798.140(ak)). Businesses must verify the identity of the requesting consumer, usu-ally by asking them to provide several items of personal information and matching these with collected data. 

• Opt-out of sale or sharing of personal information (CCPA §1798.120): This means that, although a business can retain consumer data in its databases, it must stop all sharing and selling of that data. A consumer can exercise this right by submitting a unique identifier which allows the business to find that consumer’s data in its databases . Businesses are explicitly not allowed to verify consumer identity for opt-out requests (CCPA Regs. §7026(c)), i.e., the opt-out process is meant to avoid “unnecessary friction” [4]. Personal information is defined as information that (CCPA §1798.140(v)): 

“... identifies, relates to, describes, ..., or could reasonably be linked, directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer or household...” 

Once a business receives a delete or opt-out request, it must, re-spectively: 

• Delete any personal information that relates to the consumer and respond to the consumer with the output of the request, within 45 calendar days (CCPA §1798.130(a)(2)), e.g. data deleted, or no data found, or impossible to verify identity. 

• Stop selling and sharing of the consumer’s personal infor-mation within 15 business days and wait 12 months before asking again for the consumer’s consent to share their infor-mation (CCPA §1798.135). For opt-out requests, CCPA Regulations state that there must be an explicit confirmation of a request having been processed (CCPA Regs. §7025(b)): 

“...a business must provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that their request to opt-out of sale/sharing has been processed by the business. For example, the business may display on its website “Opt-Out Request Honored” in accordance with section 7025, subsection (b)(6), and display in the consumer’s privacy settings through a toggle or radio button that the consumer has opted out of the sale/sharing of their personal information.” 

For deletion requests, the Regulations state (CCPA Regs. §7023(b)): 

“In responding to a request to delete, abusiness shall inform the consumer whether it has complied with the consumer’s request.” 

In addition to CCPA requirements, the Data Broker Registration law [ 11 ] mandates yearly registration for all data brokers operating in the state of California. A data broker is defined as: 

“... a business that knowingly collects and sells to third parties the personal information of a consumer with whom the business does not have a direct relationship.” Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests , , 

The list of all registered data brokers is publicly available [12]. Aside from California, a few other states mandate a data broker registration. For example, Vermont [ 26 ], Oregon [ 1] and Texas [ 9 ], introduced data broker registration bills. Also, a recent US federal bill includes mandating data broker registration [25]. 

## 2.2 Submitting Requests in Practice 

We now overview various means of submitting consumer requests to data brokers. NOTE: from here on we use DBR (DBR-s ) as a short-hand for data broker(s). 

2.2.1 Direct Contact. Consumers can directly contact DBR-s to submit requests. Each DBR , in its privacy policy, must specify at least 2 ways to contact them [ 10 ]. While this method is very tedious and time-consuming, it offers the most granularity and flexibility in terms of how and which DBR-s are contacted. 

2.2.2 3rd-Party Services. Certain for-profit services offer to submit requests on behalf of the consumer for a fee. These entities include: DeleteMe [ 2], Aura [ 5 ], Incogni [ 30 ], and Optery [ 27 ]. While doing this is convenient for consumers, it can be expensive, and, accord-ing to recent findings, DBR coverage and data removal success rate are unimpressive [ 19 ]. Also, the method entails giving one’s per-sonal information to yet another 3rd party of potentially dubious trustworthiness, i.e., it may get hacked and/or engage in collecting or selling consumer data. 

2.2.3 The DROP System . In January 2026, California Privacy Pro-tection Agency (CPPA) launched the Deletion Request and Opt-out Platform (DROP) site [ 15 ]. California-resident consumers can use DROP to make a unified delete or opt-out request for all regis-tered DBR-s , by providing several items of identifying information. So-called “basic” information includes: Name(s), Date of Birth, ZIP code(s), Email address(es), and Phone number(s) , while optional in-formation includes: Mobile Advertising IDs (MAIDs), Connected TV IDs, and Vehicle Identification Numbers (VINs) .However, even though DROP is now available to consumers (i.e., its consumer portal is operational) it is currently useless, since 

DBR-s are expected to act upon accumulated delete and opt-out requests only starting in August 2026. Thereafter, they must access the DROP platform at least once every 45 days and delete/opt-out all personal information for any consumer whose identifier is stored there [ 13 , 15 ]. Since the DROP portal is restricted to California residents, consumers in other jurisdictions must contact DBR-s 

directly or rely on third-party services. Because DROP was launched (for consumers only) just a few months ago and DBR-s have not yet been mandated to use it, there has been no evaluation of its efficacy or usability. 

## 3 Related Work 

Relevant prior work is reviewed in this section is summarized in Table 1. Many related studies [ 6, 7, 20 , 21 , 23 , 24 , 36 ] examined the be-havior of popular websites and businesses by submitting GDPR requests, with response rates ranging between 55% and 93%, and underlined the privacy issues of submitting data requests. Several studies created synthetic or pseudonymous information, and entered it into the website or application, thus ensuring that the website/application had collected information about the synthetic person [ 7, 20 , 28 ]. This would be very complicated to do with DBR-s 

are they are not consumer facing. Other work specifically contacted companies for which data was previously collected about the data subject (the researcher(s)) [23, 24, 36]. To evaluate the possibility of privacy-preserving requests, Ad-hatarao et al. [ 3 ] submitted requests using only an IP address as proof of identity. All requests were subsequently denied, companies judging that they could not verify identity with only the IP address. In 2023, Samarin et al. [ 28 ] submitted CCPA “right-to-know” (i.e., data access) requests to 109 Android app developers and reported their findings. The overall non-response rate was 19%. The same study showed alarming under-reporting of many types of collected information. Take et al. [ 31 ] submitted GDPR and CCPA requests to 20 people search websites – a category of DBR-s that make personal informa-tion easily accessible online through a searchable database. (Theses sites are often the ones that pop up first in the list when doing a Google search on a person’s name.) Results showed that sub-mitting requests was not straightforward, and the process varied even across requests made to the same DBR , depending on who was submitting them. Recently, He et al. [19 ] analyzed the efficacy of ten PII removal services (paid services that claim to remove their customers’ per-sonal information from DBR-s ’ sites), and found that coverage var-ied greatly, with none being fully effective at removing personal information from DBR-s .Lastly, Van Kempen et al. [ 34 ] investigated compliance with con-sumer data access requests. In that study, researchers (authors) submitted requests using their own personal information to all registered DBR-s and found that over 40% were unresponsive. Here, we look at the more popular deletion and opt-out requests. 

## 4 Methodology 

This section described our study methodology, including timeline, identities, DBR-s selection/exclusion, and ethical considerations. 

## 4.1 Study Timeline 

We submitted opt-out and deletion requests to all DBR-s registered in the state of California, as of early October 2025. The bulk of the submission process lasted roughly two months, starting in early October, and ending in early December, 2025. Two researchers, based in California, split the work: one was tasked with submitting delete, and the other – opt-out, requests. Each researcher worked on their own schedule and at their own speed. Consequently, the rate of request submission varied greatly between the two researchers and their individual request submission timelines were not in any way dependent on each other. This was done for two reasons: (1) synchronizing their workloads would have been infeasible due to external factors, and (2) independent timelines naturally inhibit correlation between their respective activities, as would be observed by DBR-s .The responses started trickling in from the very beginning. Most 

DBR-s answered either on the day of, or a few days after, receiving the request. Latest answers were received about 60 days after delete, , , Van Kempen et al. 

Table 1: Related Work Summary. Result/Study Law Request type Resp rate Consumer Entities studied Year(s) This Work CCPA Delete/Opt-out 26-38% Synthetic Data Brokers 2025-2026 Van Kempen et al. [34] CCPA Access 57% Real Data Brokers 2024-2025 Take et al. [31] CCPA/GDPR Access/Delete 82-100% Real People Search Websites 2024 Samarin et al. [28] CCPA Access 81% Synthetic Smartphone apps 2023 Adhatarao et al. [3] GDPR Access 57% Real (IP addresses) Popular Websites 2021 Martino et al. [23] GDPR Access 93% Real Popular Websites 2021 Bufalieri et al. [7] GDPR Access 71% Pseudonymous/Real Popular Websites 2020 Martino et al. [24] GDPR Access 93% Real Popular Websites 2019 Kroger et al. [21] GDPR Access 77-83% Real Smartphone apps 2015-2019 Urban et al [33] GDPR Access 58% Real Tracking services 2018 Wong et al. [36] GDPR Portability 75% Real Popular Websites 2018 Herrman et al. [20] GDPR Access 55-77% Synthetic Smartphone Apps & Popular Websites 2016 and about 100 days after opt-out, requests were submitted. Further response timeline detailed are presented in Sections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2. Note that the discussion of overall time it took to submit both request types appears later in Section 5.6. 

## 4.2 Use of Synthetic (Fictitious) Identities 

We used two distinct synthetic (non-existent or fictitious) identities, one for each request type. We believe that synthetic identities are preferable to real ones, since submitting requests (to hundreds of 

DBR-s ) using the information about the latter would impact those real individuals. Orthogonally, unlike closely related recent work in [ 34 ], we chose not to use the researchers’ (i.e., this study and paper authors’) own information, since a simple web search on researchers’ names would hint at their affiliations, publication his-tories and research profiles. That would likely expose the purpose of this study, which would have been obviously undesirable: we wanted DBR-s to be unaware of the study’s purpose, since other-wise they could treat our requests differently (whether better or worse) than organic ones. We used two identities, as opposed to just one, since we wanted the delete and opt-out requests not to be easily correlated by DBR-s .Of course, we could have used more than two identities – in the extreme, one distinct identity per request. However, given the large number of queries, creating as many realistic-sounding identities along with accompanying data (dates-of-birth, addresses, phone #-s, email) would have been prohibitively burdensome. The details of the two synthetic identities are shown in Tables 2 and 3. The names correspond to non-existent individuals. We carefully selected the names by thoroughly searching for each and made sure that there is no one with that name, in order to avoid any impact on any real person. As reflected in the tables, dates-of-birth and phone numbers are fictitious, though their area codes match to those assigned to the geographical areas that correspond to the addresses we used. However, the email addresses are real in the sense that we created them in order to be able to confirm email account access if that was needed during the request submission process. Finally, Mobile Advertising IDs (MAIDs) are fake. A MAID is a sequence of 32 hexadecimal digits generated by the OS of a mobile device (e.g., a smartphone or tablet) used by advertisers to track activity, app usage, and location data, even across devices. It is resettable by users. We chose one female- and one male-seeming identity for the sake of gender diversity. We also opted for having a large-ish age gap between them (over 30 years), for age diversity. Physical ad-dresses included Northern (Sacramento) and Southern (Riverside) California, for geographical diversity. Finally, the types of physical addresses that we used were motivated by socioeconomic diversity: the Riverside address corresponds to a real trailer park, while the (real) street name in Sacramento is located in a solidly middle-class neighborhood. In both addresses, zip-codes are real. 

Table 2: Synthetic Identity I (used for all deletion requests). Item Value 

Name Patrick Puzzolente Email patrickpuzzolente@gmail.com Date-of-Birth July 7, 1993 Phone # (fake) 951-893-3150 Address 220 E. La Cadena Dr, (real, trailer park) Riverside, CA 92507 MAID (fake) F2E4C0A7-11B8-4009-A6D4-3C9B7F0E2A11 

Table 3: Synthetic Identity II (used for all opt-out requests). Item Value 

Name Annamaria Krahenschrei Email annamariakrahenschrei@gmail.com Date-of-Birth May 24, 1960 Phone # (fake) 916-646-2451 Address 6452 Valetta Way, (fake #, real street) Sacramento, 95820 MAID (fake) 6A3F1B9E-0D2C-4A51-9E3B-8F2C1A7D9B4E Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests , , 

## 4.3 DBR Selection/Exclusion 

Using the California Data Broker Registry [ 12 ], we aimed to con-tact all 535 DBR-s registered at the time of the study, in late 2025. However, some DBR-s had to be excluded from the study due to inability to submit requests, for various reasons, such as: 

• Website issues, mainly due to broken URLs 

• Duplicate registrations of the same business 

• Requirements to provide information (for identity verifica-tion purposes) that we either could not, or did not want to, invent, e.g., cookie values or Social Security N umbers (SSNs) 

• Issues with forms that prevented successful submission, e.g., fields or CAPTCHA-s that were mis-configured. 

• Lack of contact information in the privacy policy, either for all requests or specifically missing methods for deletion requests. 

• Other: this includes individual errors, for instance being forced to log into an account, or email bouncing back. We wound up submitting a total of 322 deletion, and 358 opt-out, requests. These numbers correspond to successfully contacted 

DBR-s . The difference ( 36 = 358 − 322 ) is, for the most part, due to the fact that some DBR websites only had opt-out forms available and omitted deletion rights. In addition, CCPA, as mentioned earlier, mandates no identity verification for opt-out requests, while it is is required for deletion requests: we did not submit to DBR asking for PII we could not invent. Therefore, we could submit 36 more of opt-out requests. Table 4 summarizes DBR exclusions. 

Table 4: Data Brokers Excluded from the study. Reason for #DBR-s #DBR-s 

exclusion (delete) (opt-out) 

Website down 8 14 Duplicate 25 25 Asked too much PII 85 82 Form issue(s) 33 46 No contact info given 45 7Other 17 3For each DBR , we accessed the link indicated in the DBR registry that contains details on how consumers can exercise their CCPA rights, including how to delete their personal information. This link usually leads to one of: (1) a DBR ’s privacy policy, or (2) a CCPA-specific privacy policy, or (3) a form where the consumer can exercise their privacy rights. We submitted deletion and opt-out requests by form whenever possible. Whenever no form was available, we submitted requests by email. The email templates that we used are shown in Appendix B. The two email templates are differently worded, for obvious reasons. We recorded dates of all request submissions, confirmation of request receipt by DBR-s (if any) and their final responses. These responses were later categorized and analyzed. 

## 4.4 Ethics 

The authors’ Institutional Review Board (IRB) deemed this study to fall into the “Non-Human Subject Research” category. We contacted 

DBR-s only once per request type (twice total) and did not invent sensitive personal information when it was required, e.g., SSNs or copies of government-issued ID cards. Instead, we opted not to submit requests to DBR-s that request such information. For further ethical considerations, see Appendix A. 

## 5 Results and Analysis 

We now present results obtained from submitting requests to DBR-s 

as described in Section 4. 

## 5.1 Results Summary: Compliance Rates 

We observed the following instances of non-compliance, summa-rized in Table 5: (1) Lack of response after a request to delete: as required by the CCPA Regulations [ 22 ] and mentioned in Section 2.1, 

DBR-s must notify the consumer of the status of their request for deletion after processing it. We found that a majority of 

DBR-s did not answer after an email-based request submis-sion, and a majority of DBR-s considered the confirmation page (after form submission) as a response. (2) Identity verification during opt-out requests: again, CCPA Regulations [ 22 ] specify that businesses should not verify the identity of consumers when they submit opt-out requests (see Section 2.1). Recently, Ford Motor Company was fined $375,703 due to excessive identity verification in their opt-out request submission process. Excessive verification involves asking for more information that is actually needed to iden-tify the consumer in the DBR ’s database [ 4]. It occurs when 

DBR-s ask for too many items of personal information, or attempt to verify consumer’s access to their email address or phone number. (3) Late answers deletion requests: DBR-s must process the re-quest and respond within 45 calendar days. They can request an extension for another 45 days, however, none did so in this study. In addition, we observed the following instances of potential non-compliance summarized in Table 5: (1) Lack of answers after opt-out requests: while automatic form submissions can be considered a confirmation of opt-out, 

DBR-s contacted by email and who did not reply did not show any confirmation that the opt-out request was taken into account. (2) Late answers after opt-out requests: DBR-s must process any opt-out request within 15 business days. Some DBR-s 

responded to our request after that deadline: it is unlikely that the personal information would be opted-out before the 15 business days deadline. (3) Potentially excessive identity verification: While these DBR-s 

did not specify that they needed to verify the consumer’s identity, they asked for a greater amount of personal infor-mation that is necessary for identifying the consumer for opt-out requests. (4) Erroneous answers for deletion requests: DBR-s are supposed to announce actions taken to the consumer after process-ing a deletion request. Many DBR-s replied that data was , , Van Kempen et al. 

Table 5: Instances of non-compliance Issue Request Percentage 

Non-compliance 

Lack of answer Deletion 70% Identity verification Opt-out 22% Late answer Deletion 1.2% 

Potential non-compliance 

Lack of answer Opt-out 14% Late answer Opt-out 12% Identity verification Opt-out 39% Erroneous answer Deletion 2.5% Email verif. to view answer Opt-out 11% deleted, even though the consumer was synthetic and the data obviously does not and did not exist. (5) Requiring access to email address to learn the status of an opt-out request: while some DBR-s (correctly) did not require a consumer to verify access to their email address when submitting an opt-out request, DBR-s that use the OneTrust platform need the consumer to verify access to their email address before being able to view the response. While the personal information is already opted-out, this introduces an additional burden on the consumer if they want to check the DBR ’s answer. 

## 5.2 Request Submission: Lack of Uniformity 

Previous work [ 34 ] has shown that submitting access requests is very time-consuming and does not follow a standardized process: each DBR is free to have its own means for a consumer to submit access requests. Since there are (respectively) 15 × and 25 × more deletion and opt-out requests than access requests, we hoped that submitting the most popular types of request would be more stream-lined. However, we witnessed the same ad-hoc submission process for delete and opt-out requests. While a California resident could now use the convenient DROP platform [ 15 ], consumers in other jurisdictions (e.g. Vermont, Texas or Oregon) cannot do so and must submit individual requests to each DBR .The majority of deletion and opt-out requests could be submit-ted via a form, 75% and 80% respectively. Less than a third were submitted by email. Results are shown in Figure 1. While email request submission is faster for the consumer (since the same mes-sage template can be used for all email-using DBR-s ), it sometimes requires a second step of providing more information to verify con-sumer identity or identify the consumer. In contrast, form-based submission asks for all required information at the same time: this usually means that more items of information need to be provided to the DBR , and each DBR may ask for different types of personal information. In addition, forms regularly entail solving Captcha-s to prevent bots, which translates into an added burden for consumers [8, 29]. 

## 5.3 Identity verification process 

This section describes the details, and types, of identity verification encountered for in submitting each request type. 

Figure 1: Method of Request Submission 

5.3.1 Deletion Requests. To request deletion of their personal in-formation, consumers must submit a VCR. DBR-s must verify the identity of the consumer, and then process the request, i.e., delete any personal information relating to that consumer. To verify con-sumer identity, DBR-s ask the consumer to provide some items of personal information in order to match it with what is stored in their databases. If enough personal information matches, consumer identity is considered “verified” and the DBR can proceed with data deletion [ 22 ]. DBR-s may ask for varying types (and amounts of) personal information. Figure 2 summarizes personal information requested by DBR-s contacted using a form. For DBR-s contacted via email, only the full name and email address of the synthetic consumer were provided. Some DBR-s asked for information that we chose not to falsify because we either could not (e.g., device cookie values), or did not want to, do so for ethical reasons, e.g., SSNs. 

5.3.2 Opt-out Requests. To opt out of sharing and further collec-tion of their personal information, a consumer has to submit some information as part of their request, but a VCR must not be required: although DBR-s are not supposed to request any personal informa-tion for verification purposes from consumers who submit opt-out requests, they can ask for personal information needed to identify the consumer in their databases. However, we found that many 

DBR-s nonetheless attempted to verify consumer identity during opt-out requests by requesting additional information. 

## 5.4 Answers and Lack Thereof 

For both deletion and opt-out requests, most DBR-s did not explicitly confirm having processed requests after a form- or email-based submission. Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests , , 

Figure 2: Information required for request Submission 

Figure 3: Answers for deletion requests. 

5.4.1 Delete Processing . As noted in Section 2.1, DBR-s have 45 cal-endar days to inform the consumer about the result of their deletion request. Among the 322 DBR-s contacted, only 97 responded with the result of the deletion requests. We summarize their answers in Figure 3. Some DBR-s might assume that the form submission confirmation message is equivalent to the response of confirma-tion for the consumer. This may be true depending on the DBR-s 

deletion process. If a DBR deletes consumer’s data immediately, a message stating “your data was deleted” suffices. Otherwise, the consumer is left in the dark as far as the outcome of their request. It is impossible to tell the difference between the two cases. The response timeline for deletion requests was generally en-couraging, with the large majority of DBR-s replying within the prescribed 45-day limit (as shown in Figure 4), though 5% of respond-ing DBR-s exceeded it. Half of responding DBR-s replied within the first 3 calendar days. 

5.4.2 Opt-out Processing . DBR-s need to act upon an opt-out re-quest within 15 business days after its receipt. The law does not mandate them to directly respond to consumers. Instead, it states that a consumer must have a way to confirm that they have been opted out [22]. However, without a response from DBR-s and con-sidering the low compliance with deletion requests observed in this study as well as the similarly poor compliance with access requests from [ 34 ], it is unclear whether opt-out requests are ac-tually processed appropriately. 34 DBR-s confirmed, by email, that they processed the request. 66 DBR-s announced that no data was found about the consumer, of which 11 also added the consumer’s information to an “opt-out list”. The summary of responses appears in Figure 5. The timing of responses for opt-out requests was appreciably worse than that for delete, with a large fraction of DBR-s (30%) exceeding the prescribed 15-business-day limit, as shown in Figure 6. Still, half of them answered within 1 business day. , , Van Kempen et al. 

Figure 4: Timeline for deletion requests. 

Figure 5: Answers for opt-out requests. 

## 5.5 Individual Non-Compliance 

Aside from the major non-compliance trends described above, we observed the following isolated behaviors. After submitting opt-out and deletion requests, three DBR-s be-gan sending marketing emails to the email addresses corresponding to our synthetic identities. This practice is clearly forbidden by the CCPA, which states that any personal information shared during a data request can only be used to fulfill the request, i.e. identifica-tion and verification of the consumer [ 10 ]. Any further use of the personal information is clearly forbidden. One DBR , responding to an opt-out request, sent a link by email which led to a simple webpage stating “You have already chosen to opt-in”. Neither the email nor the webpage provided any informa-tion about actually opting out. Finally, along with its confirmation of data deletion, one DBR 

provided (via email) a sample of its consumer records, which (alarm-ingly) included information about real people. 

## 5.6 Time to Submit All Requests 

Two researchers (co-authors of this study) conducted all requests submissions: one for each request type. Recall that a total of 358 

opt-out, and 322 delete, requests were submitted. Other registered 

DBR-s could not be contacted for several reasons, mentioned earlier. The submission of all opt-out requests took approximately 20 

hours, which corresponds to 3.3 minutes per DBR . In contrast, the deletion request took about 25 hours in total, yielding a rate of 4.6

minutes per DBR . The difference of just over one minute between the two rates is mainly due to two factors: (1) procedures for sub-mitting deletion requests were a bit harder to find on the DBR-s ’websites (they were often not in the same place where deletion requests procedures were described), and (2) deletion requests re-quired identity verification, while opt-out requests generally did not. One factor that has likely influenced the overall time consumed to submit requests is the demographic of the researchers who per-formed this work. Both are Computer Science students in their early- to mid-20s who are naturally quite tech-savvy. 

Figure 6: Timeline for opt-out requests. Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests , , 

## 5.7 Comparison With a Prior Study of Data Access Requests 

A closely related study was recently conducted by Van Kempen et al. [ 34 ]. It focused on data access requests submitted under CCPA to all California-registered DBR-s in late 2024 At that time, 543 

DBR-s were registered and requests were made to 454 of those. In contrast, we submitted opt-out and deletion requests to 358 and 

322 DBR-s , respectively. This represents substantial differences in terms of numbers of contacted DBR-s .Since [ 34 ] used a real person’s (one of its authors’) information to submit data access requests, more DBR-s could be contacted. However, our study encountered more limitations since we used synthetic identities and thus could not (or did not want to) fabricate certain information, e.g. cookie values or SSN-s. We believe that this accounts for most of the gap in request submission numbers. Compared to [ 34 ] where 48 .9% of DBR-s provided form submis-sions, many more DBR-s did so in this study: 75 % and 80 %. We believe that there were two reasons for this: (1) Requests to delete/opt-out are easier to automate than re-quests to access. Therefore, use of a form streamlines the process for DBR-s .(2) Over the past couple of years, more DBR-s adopted form submissions for all types of consumer requests. Beyond the numbers of contacted DBR-s , response rates in our study were also lower than that in the prior study of access requests. This is likely because DBR-s assume that a form submission confirmation page/message for a delete/opt-out request represents a response, and thus do not separately confirm receipt of a request. In terms of responses, DBR-s followed the same answer timeline pattern in both studies: a vast majority responded within the first few days, and very few DBR-s answered late. 

## 5.8 Answers to Research Questions 

Recall the research questions posed in Section 1. We now describe the extent to which the study answered them. 

RQ1: What are the differences, if any, for a consumer in the submission process of opt-out vs. deletion requests to DBR-s ?

Since opt-out requests are submitted without identity verification, they involve less consumer burden and are faster to submit. How-ever, a significant percentage of DBR-s still asked to verify the consumer’s identity, therefore not complying with the CCPA. Also, deletion requests are more final, since DBR-s can still keep and col-lect the personal information for a given consumer after an opt-out request. 

RQ2: To what extent do DBR-s comply with the CCPA? As shown is Section 5.1, we observed significant non-compliance. The majority of DBR-s did not respond to our deletion requests, and many did not confirm our opt-out requests. In addition, potential acts of non-compliance were common. Results are summarized in Table 5. 

RQ3: What is the overall process for a consumer to submit all such requests? Since every DBR has a different process to sub-mit data requests (see Section 5.2), a consumer must go on every 

DBR ’s webpage and look for a given method in order to submit data requests. This represents a very heavy burden (in terms of time and effort) for the average consumer. It is also highly repetitive and thus extremely tedious. Consumers in California can use DROP [ 15 ], while those in other jurisdictions have to pay a third-party service to to remove their personal information from all DBR ’s databases. 

## 6 Limitations 

Since we used synthetic identities, we cannot be sure whether DBR-s 

actually complied with our requests. DBR-s could have ignored requests if they deemed it fraudulent. In the best case, DBR-s should have recorded our opt-out requests even though they should not have found any information in their databases corresponding to the fictitious individual. In other words, they should have kept “state” to prevent themselves from collecting any information about that individual in the future. As far as deletion requests, the best outcome would have been an explicit notification by each DBR about their inability to find any information for the fictitious individual. However, this is a fundamental limitation of our study: although it uncovered various types of non-compliance, it did not evaluate the actual efficacy of submitting delete and opt-out requests. Doing that would require using real identities. 

## 7 Future Work 

The study presented here is by no means the “end of the road.” The new California DROP system mandates DBR-s to explicitly commu-nicate the status of each request to the requesting consumer. This feature, if treated in good faith (by DBR-s ) and implemented well by CPPA, would be highly beneficial to consumers. One intuitive direction for future work is to wait some time after August 2026, when DBR-s will be mandated to actually participate in the CPPA’s DROP portal, and assess its efficacy. The new California DROP system mandates DBR-s to specifically answer the status of each request, which, if treated in good faith (by 

DBR-s ) and implemented well by CPPA, would be highly beneficial to consumers. A thorough evaluation of the DROP system (once it is fully operational) would be both useful and interesting. However, this cannot be done until August 2026, at the earliest. Another direction is to repeat the study presented in this paper with identities that are neither synthetic nor those of the researchers conducting the study. The main idea would be to evaluate deletion and opt-out (by submitting requests as we did) and then later verify that those requests were acted upon by submitting data access requests. We obviously could not do the latter, since we used non-existent identities. However, using identities of real people can be problematic, e.g., recruitment and remuneration, as well as potential ethical issues. An alternative is to use identities of dead people, though this is likely even more problematic. As mentioned in Section 5.6, the two researchers who submitted both request types are not representative of the general population, due to being quite young and technologically adept. A more realistic assessment of overall time and effort would use a representative population sample. Finally, in the long-term, a more frictionless user interface to 

DBR-s should be developed. While the CPPA’s DROP portal is a step , , Van Kempen et al. 

in the right direction, it is not privacy agile. A consumer must enter lots of personal information into the portal. Also, DROP operates in an asynchronous manner, since DBR-s are only required to fetch accumulated (on the portal) delete and opt-out requests with a frequency of at most 45 days. It is not hard to imagine a system that offers more privacy for consumers and operates in a real-time fashion. 

## 8 Conclusions 

While current regulations, exemplified by CCPA, appear to give consumers more control over their data, exercising one’s rights is still a highly laborious and opaque process. As the results of the study described in this paper show, one must submit many types of forms (and/or emails) and what comes back (if anything at all) is mostly in the form of generic text. Deletion is harder than opt-out and sometimes requires sending a considerable amount of additional personal information to DBR-s .

## References 

[1] 82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY. [n. d.]. House Bill 2052. https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2023R1/Downloads/MeasureDocument/ HB2052/Enrolled [2] Abine. [n. d.]. DeleteMe: Remove Your Personal Info from Search Results. https: //joindeleteme.com/. Accessed: 11-13-2025. [3] Supriya Adhatarao, Cédric Lauradoux, and Cristiana Santos. 2021. Why IP-based Subject Access Requests Are Denied? arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.01019 (2021). [4] California Privacy Protection Agency. 2026. Ford to change prac-tices, pay fine for adding unnecessary friction to opt-out process. https://privacy.ca.gov/2026/03/ford-to-change-practices-pay-fine-for-adding-unnecessary-friction-to-opt-out-process/ [5] Aura. [n. d.]. Aura: All-In-One Digital Safety. https://buy.aura.com/. Accessed:11-13-2025. [6] Coline Boniface, Imane Fouad, Nataliia Bielova, Cédric Lauradoux, and Cristiana Santos. 2019. Security Analysis of Subject Access Request Procedures - How to Authenticate Data Subjects Safely When They Request for Their Data. In Privacy Technologies and Policy - 7th Annual Privacy Forum, APF 2019, Rome, Italy, June 13-14, 2019, Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 11498) , Maurizio Naldi, Giuseppe F. Italiano, Kai Rannenberg, Manel Medina, and Athena Bourka (Eds.). Springer, 182–209. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-21752-5_12 [7] Luca Bufalieri, Massimo La Morgia, Alessandro Mei, and Julinda Stefa. 2020. GDPR: When the Right to Access Personal Data Becomes a Threat. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on Web Services, ICWS 2020, Beijing, China, October 19-23, 2020 . IEEE, 75–83. doi:10.1109/ICWS49710.2020.00017 [8] Elie Bursztein, Steven Bethard, Celine Fabry, John C Mitchell, and Dan Jurafsky. 2010. How good are humans at solving CAPTCHAs? A large scale evaluation. In 

2010 IEEE symposium on security and privacy . IEEE, 399–413. [9] BUSINESS and COMMERCE CODE. [n. d.]. CHAPTER 510. DATA BROKERS. https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/?tab=1&code=BC&chapter=BC.510&artSec= [10] California Legislature. 2018. TITLE 1.81.5. California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018. https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displayText.xhtml?division= 3.&part=4.&lawCode=CIV&title=1.81.5 [11] California Legislature. 2019. TITLE 1.81.48. Data Broker Registra-tion. https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displayText.xhtml?lawCode= CIV&division=3.&title=1.81.48.&part=4.&chapter=&article= [12] California Privacy Protection Agency. [n. d.]. Data Broker Registry. https: //cppa.ca.gov/data_broker_registry/ [13] California State Legislature. 2023. SB-362: California Delete Act of 2023. https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id= 202320240SB362. Accessed:11-13-2025. [14] Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. [n. d.]. Why are hundreds of data brokers not registering with states? . https://privacyrights.org/resources-tools/reports/why-are-hundreds-data-brokers-not-registering-states [15] CPPA. [n. d.]. Proposed Regulations on Accessible Deletion Mechanism. https: //cppa.ca.gov/regulations/drop.html. Accessed:11-13-2025. [16] European Parliament and Council. 2016. Regulation (EU) 2016/679, General Data Protection Regulation. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/ [17] McKenzie Funk. [n. d.]. The man who trapped us in databases (published 2023). https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/magazine/hank-asher-data.html [18] Governo do Brasil. 2023. LGPD - Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados. https://www. gov.br/esporte/pt-br/acesso-a-informacao/lgpd Accessed: [5/28/2025]. [19] Jiahui He, Peter Snyder, Hamed Haddadi, Fabián E. Bustamante, and Gareth Tyson. 2025. Measuring the Accuracy and Effectiveness of PII Removal Services. Proc. Priv. Enhancing Technol. 2025, 4 (2025), 166–182. doi:10.56553/POPETS-2025-0125 [20] Dominik Herrmann and Jens Lindemann. 2016. Obtaining personal data and asking for erasure: do app vendors and website owners honour your privacy rights?. In Sicherheit 2016: Sicherheit, Schutz und Zuverlässigkeit, Beiträge der 8. Jahrestagung des Fachbereichs Sicherheit der Gesellschaft für Informatik e.V. (GI), 5.-7. April 2016, Bonn (LNI, Vol. P-256) , Michael Meier, Delphine Reinhardt, and Steffen Wendzel (Eds.). GI, 149–160. https://dl.gi.de/handle/20.500.12116/863 [21] Jacob Leon Kröger, Jens Lindemann, and Dominik Herrmann. 2020. How do app vendors respond to subject access requests?: a longitudinal privacy study on iOS and Android Apps. In ARES 2020: The 15th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, Virtual Event, Ireland, August 25-28, 2020 ,Melanie Volkamer and Christian Wressnegger (Eds.). ACM, 10:1–10:10. doi:10. 1145/3407023.3407057 [22] California Legislature. [n. d.]. California Code of Regulations. https: //govt.westlaw.com/calregs/Index?transitionType=Default&contextData= %28sc.Default%29 [23] Mariano Di Martino, Isaac Meers, Peter Quax, Ken Andries, and Wim Lamotte. 2022. Revisiting Identification Issues in GDPR ’Right Of Access’ Policies: A Technical and Longitudinal Analysis. Proc. Priv. Enhancing Technol. 2022, 2 (2022), 95–113. doi:10.2478/POPETS-2022-0037 [24] Mariano Di Martino, Pieter Robyns, Winnie Weyts, Peter Quax, Wim Lamotte, and Ken Andries. 2019. Personal Information Leakage by Abusing the GDPR ’Right of Access’. In Fifteenth Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security, SOUPS 2019, Santa Let My Data Go: Data Brokers’ Compliance with Opt-Out & Deletion Requests , , 

Clara, CA, USA, August 11-13, 2019 , Heather Richter Lipford (Ed.). USENIX Asso-ciation. https://www.usenix.org/conference/soups2019/presentation/dimartino [25] US House of Representatives. [n. d.]. SECURE Data Act. https://financialservices. house.gov/uploadedfiles/secure_data_act.pdf [26] General Assembly of the State of Vermont. [n. d.]. No. 171. An act relating to data brokers and consumer protection. https://legislature.vermont.gov/Documents/ 2018/Docs/ACTS/ACT171/ACT171%20As%20Enacted.pdf [27] Optery. 2025. https://www.optery.com/ [28] Nikita Samarin, Shayna Kothari, Zaina Siyed, Oscar Bjorkman, Reena Yuan, Primal Wijesekera, Noura Alomar, Jordan Fischer, Chris Jay Hoofnagle, and Serge Egelman. 2023. Lessons in VCR Repair: Compliance of Android App Developers with the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). Proc. Priv. Enhancing Technol. 

2023, 3 (2023), 103–121. doi:10.56553/POPETS-2023-0072 [29] Andrew Searles, Yoshimichi Nakatsuka, Ercan Ozturk, Andrew Paverd, Gene Tsudik, and Ai Enkoji. 2023. An empirical study & evaluation of modern 

{CAPTCHAs }. In 32nd usenix security symposium (usenix security 23) . 3081– 3097. [30] Surfshark. [n. d.]. Incogni: Automatic Personal Data Removal. https://incogni. com/. Accessed: 11-13-2025. [31] Kejsi Take, Jordyn Young, Rasika Bhalerao, Kevin Gallagher, Andrea Forte, Damon McCoy, and Rachel Greenstadt. 2024. What to Expect When You’re Accessing: An Exploration of User Privacy Rights in People Search Websites. Proc. Priv. Enhancing Technol. 2024, 4 (2024), 311–326. doi:10.56553/POPETS-2024-0118 [32] Shreya Tewari and Fiyako Walter-Johnson. [n. d.]. New records de-tail DHS purchase and use of vast quantities of cell phone location data. https://www.aclu.org/news/privacy-technology/new-records-detail-dhs-purchase-and-use-of-vast-quantities-of-cell-phone-location-data [33] Tobias Urban, Dennis Tatang, Martin Degeling, Thorsten Holz, and Norbert Pohlmann. 2019. A Study on Subject Data Access in Online Advertising After the GDPR. In Data Privacy Management, Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology - ESORICS 2019 International Workshops, DPM 2019 and CBT 2019, Luxembourg, September 26-27, 2019, Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 11737) ,Cristina Pérez-Solà, Guillermo Navarro-Arribas, Alex Biryukov, and Joaquín García-Alfaro (Eds.). Springer, 61–79. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-31500-9_5 [34] Elina van Kempen, Isita Bagayatkar, Pavel Frolikov, Chloe Georgiou, and Gene Tsudik. 2026. Consumer Beware! Exploring Data Brokers’ CCPA Compliance. 

IEEE S&P 2026 (2026). [35] Data Brokers Watch. [n. d.]. https://databrokerswatch.org/ [36] Janis Wong and Tristan Henderson. 2019. The right to data portability in practice: exploring the implications of the technologically neutral GDPR. International Data Privacy Law 9, 3 (2019), 173–191. 

## A Ethical Considerations 

As mentioned in Section 4.4, the study, results of which are de-scribed in this paper, falls into the “Non-Human Subject Research” category, according to the authors’ institution’s Institutional Re-view Board (IRB). Each data broker that was not excluded from the study (see Section 4.3) was contacted twice, once for each request type. No identifying information corresponding to any existing consumers was used. One potential issue is our use of two fictitious identities (along with related information for each) for request submission. This can be viewed as a kind of deception. However, as mentioned in Section 4.2, we made sure that these identities did not correspond to any real person, whether living or dead. Also, their names and other information were carefully constructed to appear realistic. We believe that this was justified, since the alternatives (e.g., using identities of real people, including those of authors, would have been ethically problematic and/or would have leaked the purpose of submitted requests. 

## B Delete and Opt-out Email Templates 

The opt-out and delete templates are shown in Figures 7 and 8, respectively. 

Figure 7: Opt-out request email template 

Hello, Under the CCPA opt-out right, I request that you stop selling or sharing my personal information. Let me know if you need additional information. Thank you for processing this request. Sincerely, Annamaria Krahenschrei 

Figure 8: Delete request email template 

To whom it may concern, I am writing to request the deletion of my personal information under the CCPA. Please let me know if you need any further information. Thank you for your timely response. Best regards, Patrick Puzzolente