Title: Privacy-Preserving Federated Temporal Graph Learning with Digital Twin–Guided Adaptive Deception for Cyber-Resilient IoMT

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.21513v1

Published Time: Tue, 23 Jun 2026 01:14:56 GMT

Number of Pages: 48

Markdown Content:
# Privacy-Preserving Federated Temporal Graph Learning with Digital Twin–Guided Adaptive Deception for Cyber-Resilient IoMT 

Syed Zeeshan Haider a, Anwar Shah a, ∗, Muneeb Arif a, Hamza Iftikhar a,Waqas Ali a

> aFAST National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad, Pakistan

Abstract 

The rapid proliferation of Internet of Things (IoT) and Internet of Medi-cal Things (IoMT) devices introduces critical cybersecurity vulnerabilities in healthcare and industrial environments where resource-constrained de-vices operate under strict latency requirements and stringent data-privacy regulations. This paper presents the Federated Temporal Graph Convolu-tional Network with Advantage Actor-Critic (Federated TGCN-A2C) frame-work, a privacy-preserving defense architecture integrating four complemen-tary mechanisms: a PyG-based Temporal GCN using GCNConv layers with global mean pooling and a learned anomaly gate for flow-level threat classifi-cation; lightweight LSTM-based Digital Twins trained on normal-class traffic to generate per-device anomaly scores that gate the GCN classifier through a learned sigmoid coupling; a Federated A2C agent selecting among AL-LOW, ISOLATE, and HONEYPOT_REDIRECT actions based on a seven-dimensional state capturing classifier confidence, entropy, anomaly magni-tude, and traffic composition; and an intelligent enhanced honeypot layer that converts redirected suspicious traffic into actionable threat intelligence with adaptive capture thresholds. Federated aggregation employs exponen-tial moving average (EMA)-smoothed per-client validation losses as inverse-weighted FedAvg coefficients to stabilise global model updates under non-IID         

> ∗Corresponding author
> Email addresses: zeeshan.haider.syed1010@gmail.com (Syed Zeeshan Haider),
> anwar.shah@nu.edu.pk (Anwar Shah), muneebrajpoot9797@gmail.com (Muneeb Arif),
> hamzaiftikharbhatti@gmail.com (Hamza Iftikhar), waqas.ali@nu.edu.pk (Waqas Ali)
> arXiv:2606.21513v1 [cs.LG] 19 Jun 2026

client distributions, with cosine-annealed local learning rates per round. On CICDDoS 2019 and TON-IoT benchmarks, the framework achieves 99.48% and 99.61% test accuracy with weighted-F1 of 0.9948 and 0.9961, respec-tively, converging within 25 and 10 federated rounds, outperforming the Fed-Inforce-Fusion baseline by 0.21 percentage points while covering three addi-tional attack categories. All sixteen classes of CICDDoS 2019 achieve F1 ≥≥ ≥ 0.9237, and all ten classes of TON-IoT achieve F1 ≥≥ ≥ 0.9488, including the severely imbalanced mitm category. Post-hoc explainability via SHAP, LIME, Grad-CAM, and counterfactual analysis confirms that classification decisions are grounded in semantically meaningful flow features, supporting the regulatory accountability in clinical deployments. The framework demon-strates that a unified federated architecture combining graph-convolutional temporal modelling, reinforcement-learning-based adaptive response, Digital Twin anomaly gating, and intelligent honeypot deception can achieve state-of-the-art multi-class intrusion detection while preserving data privacy and operational continuity. 

Keywords: Internet of Medical Things, Digital Twins, Federated Learning, Graph Convolutional Networks, Advantage Actor-Critic, Honeypot Defense, Cyber Resilience, Edge Computing, Intrusion Detection, Non-IID Federated Aggregation, CICDDoS 2019, TON-IoT 

1. Introduction 

The Internet of Things (IoT) and the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) represent one of the most consequential paradigm shifts in modern indus-try and healthcare, bringing together smart sensors, industrial controllers, implantable cardiac monitors, smart insulin pumps, connected infusion sys-tems, continuous vital-sign wearables, and hospital-grade diagnostic equip-ment into a unified, networked fabric [1, 2]. The scope of this transformation is substantial. Market analysts the project that by 2025, the number of the active IoT and IoMT endpoints worldwide will exceed 5.8 billion, and the IoMT-enabled efficiencies could generate up to the $300 billion in the healthcare savings [3]. Yet the same connectivity that allows a cardiologist to review a patient’s rhythm data from across the city also opens pathways for adversaries, those adversaries may seek to disrupt care, exfiltrate pro-tected health information, or manipulate the device behaviour in ways that directly endanger lives. 2The security challenge in IoT and in IoMT is not purely technical; it is architectural. Devices are built under constraints that have historically treated security as secondary to an operational function. Consider typical IoMT endpoints: they operate with processors in the 100–500 MHz range, carry 64–512 MB of working memory, run on battery budgets measured in milliwatts, and must maintain a deterministic real-time response for the life-critical functions such as pacemaker output or insulin bolus delivery [4]. These constraints severely limit the cryptographic and computational load that a device can sustain. At the same time, the data these devices gener-ate is governed by the strict regulatory frameworks, HIPAA in the United States, GDPR in the European Union, and the analogous instruments in most jurisdictions, which impose tight restrictions on where the patient data may be stored, processed, and transmitted [5]. The combination of resource scarcity and regulatory burden creates a security environment that standard enterprise intrusion detection technologies cannot address directly. The threat landscape facing IoT and IoMT deployments has grown sub-stantially in sophistication. Consider false-data injection attacks: they ma-nipulate the sensor readings, causing systems to administer the incorrect dosages or withhold critical interventions. Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) campaigns flood network segments with amplified traffic, Severing communi-cation between monitoring systems and clinical staff. In Man-in-the-middle interception, adversaries can silently modify the data flows between device and its management pltform. Ransomware targeting the medical infrastruc-ture has emerged as a particularly dangerous vector: the 2020 Duesseldorf University Hospital attack illustrates that the cyber threats to the health-care infrastructure carry real potential for patient harm [6]. Scanning and the password-spraying campaigns continuously probe the hospital networks for exposed management interfaces, as attackers seek footholds for deeper penetration through such interfaces. When a traditional intrusion detection system is deployed in an IoT con-text or an IoMT context, it falls short along several dimensions. A signature-based system, though fast, requires a continuous manual rule update and remains fundamentally reactive. Such a system can detect only a known attack pattern and stays blind to a novel variant [7]. A centralised machine learning approach introduces a round-trip latency of 60–120 ms. This la-tency exceeds a response window of a time-sensitive clinical system [8], and such an approach also requires that a sensitive patient data travel across a network boundary. This requirement directly conflicts with a data-residency 3requirement under the HIPAA and the GDPR [9]. Even a cloud-adjacent fog deployment requires a raw data to leave a device, which makes it legally problematic for many healthcare jurisdictions. A realistic pathway to a security architecture that addresses these con-straints simultaneously comes from the convergence of several complemen-tary technologies. Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) operating on the temporal windows of network flow statistics allow the model to exploit both the feature interactions and time-order structure within each observation window, thereby capturing the relational signatures that distinguish the at-tack categories [22]. Digital Twins (DTs) create lightweight, continuously synchronised virtual replicas of the physical devices, enabling the real-time behavioural monitoring through prediction-error analysis rather than the raw data inspection [1, 3]. Federated Learning (FL), the training process is dis-tributed across participating institutions. This allows each site to improve a shared global model without ever transmitting the raw patient records [10, 5]. Advantage Actor-Critic (A2C) reinforcement learning equips the de-fense agents with adaptive response policies that continuously improve as the threat environment evolves [11]. Honeypot systems have matured from passive observation traps into active threat intelligence engines that simulta-neously waste the attacker’s resources and harvest the forensic data on novel techniques [13]. A substantial body of recent work has attempted to address IoT and IoMT security through various combinations of these enabling technologies. Popoola et al. [31] demonstrated federated zero-day botnet detection but re-quired 92–100 communication rounds per experiment, making the approach impractical for hospitals where global model updates must be issued within minutes of a new campaign’s emergence. Naeem et al. [32] proposed a semi-supervised active learning framework that needed in excess of 100,000 local epochs, a compute budget wholly incompatible with clinical edge hardware. The DTFL-CD system [27] combined Digital Twins with federated learning and achieved F1 scores of 0.98 on CICDDoS 2019, but still required 48 ag-gregation rounds with CPU utilisation swings between 44% and 71%, and offered no adaptive response mechanism beyond raising an alert. The closest prior integrated work, Fed-Inforce-Fusion [28], combined federated learning with Q-learning-based reinforcement for IoMT intrusion detection, achieving 99.40% accuracy on TON-IoT across seven attack classes. Yet Q-learning’s tabular value function does not scale to continuous state spaces, the system does not incorporate Digital Twin monitoring to detect behavioural anoma-4lies, and there is no honeypot integration to convert detections into actionable threat intelligence. Most fundamentally, none of these systems address cyber resilience as a first-class design objective: they measure detection accuracy in isolation but do not specify how the system maintains clinical continuity during an active attack or recovers after containment. To address these compounded limitations, this paper proposes the Fed-erated Temporal GCN with A2C and Digital Twin (Federated TGCN-A2C) framework, a unified, privacy-preserving security architec-ture designed from the ground up for cyber-resilient IoT and IoMT deploy-ments. The Federated TGCN-A2C integrates four tightly coupled compo-nents: lightweight LSTM-based Digital Twins trained on normal-class traffic to produce per-device anomaly scores; a Temporal GCN using PyG’s GC-NConv layers with global mean pooling whose classifier logits are directly gated by the Digital Twin’s reconstruction error through a learned per-class sigmoid coupling; a Federated A2C agent that selects ALLOW, ISOLATE, or HONEYPOT_REDIRECT actions from a seven-dimensional state encod-ing classifier confidence, anomaly magnitude, and local traffic composition; and an Enhanced Honeypot System with adaptive capture thresholds that converts suspicious redirected traffic into forensic threat intelligence. Feder-ated training uses EMA-weighted FedAvg to stabilize global model updates under non-IID client distributions, while at the same time, the entire system is governed by a four-level graduated degradation strategy that guarantees clinical operational continuity at every threat level. The framework is eval-uated on CICDDoS 2019 and TON-IoT benchmarks, achieving 99.48% and 99.61% test accuracy, respectively, converging in 25 and 10 federated rounds with strong per-class performance, including robust detection of the severely underrepresented mitm class. The principal contributions of this work are as follows: 

• An anomaly-gated Temporal GCN architecture is proposed to combine lightweight Digital Twins with graph-based anomaly detection for im-proved attack identification. 

• An EMA-weighted federated aggregation mechanism is introduced to en-hance training stability and convergence under non-IID data distributions. 

• An integrated A2C-based honeypot defense layer is developed to automate threat mitigation and malicious traffic redirection.HONEYPOT_REDIRECT action converts the suspicious traffic into an actionable threat intelligence with verified attack success rates above a 99% in the later rounds. 5• A four-level graduated degradation strategy is designed to preserve critical IoMT services during cyberattacks with minimal performance impact. 

• An explainable decision framework is incorporated using SHAP, LIME, Grad-CAM, and counterfactual analysis to improve transparency and ac-countability. The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. Section 2 surveys related work. Section 3 presents the problem formulation. Section 4 details the Federated TGCN-A2C architecture and algorithmic procedure. Section 5 presents experimental results and comparative evaluation. Section 6 analy-ses cyber resilience properties and privacy guarantees. Section 7 presents explainability analysis. Section 8 concludes and outlines future directions. 

2. Related Work 

This section reviews the six technology domains whose intersection defines the design space of the Federated TGCN-A2C framework, identifying the specific limitations of existing approaches that motivate each design choice in our framework. 

2.1. Digital Twins for IoT and Healthcare Security 

The concept of a Digital Twin is a continuously synchronised virtual model of a physical entity. It was originally proposed for industrial man-ufacturing. But it has since been adapted broadly to the networked systems security. Alcaraz and López [1] conducted a foundational survey of the secu-rity threats specific to the DT environments, cataloguing the synchronisation latency attacks, the twin state poisoning, and the data-integrity violations as the primary vectors. Their analysis established that a synchronisation delay exceeding approximately the 0.05 ms on a high-fidelity industrial DT is a reliable indicator of man-in-the-middle interception. This finding motivates the use of the reconstruction error as an anomaly signal in our design. Specifically in the IoT domain specifically, Khan et al. [3] proposed a taxonomy of the DT applications for wireless systems. A partitioning of the uses was performed by the authors, yielding three categories: a design validation category, a predictive maintenance category, and a security simu-lation category. A key observation from their work is that a primary obstacle for a DT deployment on a resource-constrained IoT hardware platform is a memory footprint associated with the twin model itself. They addressed this 6by offloading a twin computation to the edge gateways. Our Digital Twin design follows this prescription: twin inference executes on the edge gateway rather than the medical device, keeping the device-side overhead to the cost of transmitting compressed state updates. For the healthcare setting specifically, a growing body of work has ex-plored how DTs can secure clinical environments without exposing raw pa-tient data. Qureshi et al. [14] proposed a federated DT architecture for smart hospitals that separates the learning of device behaviour models from the collection of patient identifiers, and demonstrated that reconstruction-based anomaly detection achieves 93% detection of ransomware pre-cursors with a false positive rate below 2%. Chen et al. [15] extended this line of work by incorporating blockchain-based attestation into DT synchronisation for med-ical device authentication, achieving 99.2% authentication accuracy at 1.5 ms latency. These studies collectively motivate the use of reconstruction-error-based Digital Twins as a first-line anomaly signal, but none of them couple the DT output directly into the classifier inference pathway as a learned gate, a design choice we introduce in the Federated TGCN-A2C framework. 

2.2. Federated Learning for Privacy-Preserving IoMT Security 

Federated learning, formalised by McMahan et al. [10] as FedAvg, has become the dominant paradigm for privacy-preserving collaborative learn-ing. Its core guarantee, that raw data never leaves the originating device, maps directly onto the data-residency requirements of healthcare regulation and has motivated a substantial body of work applying FL to medical IoT security. Mothukuri et al. [5] surveyed FL applications in healthcare, identifying three fundamental challenges: statistical heterogeneity of data across par-ticipating institutions (the non-IID problem), communication efficiency in bandwidth-constrained clinical networks, and vulnerability to model-poisoning attacks through malicious gradient updates. Statistical heterogeneity is par-ticularly acute in healthcare: in our experimental setup on CICDDoS 2019, Client 0 carries 47,020 training windows with TFTP as its dominant class (38.7%), Client 1 carries 46,991 windows with DrDoS_NTP as dominant (38.6%), and Client 2 carries 44,020 windows with a more balanced distribu-tion, reflecting realistic hospital network heterogeneity. Li et al. [16] developed the enhanced federated frameworks for the hetero-geneous IoT that address the statistical heterogeneity through an adaptive per-client weighting, achieving a strong accuracy in health monitoring tasks. 7Zhang et al. [8] applied a transfer learning within a federated framework to the IIoT intrusion detection, achieving the 95.97% accuracy, though their use of a shared cloud server for the aggregation introduces the 85–120 ms round-trip latency unsuitable for time-critical medical applications. Singh et al. [9] proposed a federated IDS for the healthcare IoT, achieving the 98.2% accuracy on NSL-KDD, though that dataset lacks the contemporary attack vectors relevant to the IoMT threat landscape. A key algorithmic advance relevant to our work is SCAFFOLD [17], which addresses the client drift in the non-IID settings through the control variates that correct the direction of the local gradient updates. SCAFFOLD re-duces the communication rounds by up to a 50% compared to the FedAvg on the heterogeneous benchmarks. Our EMA weighting approach addresses the client drift from a different angle: rather than modifying the gradient update rule, we smooth the aggregation coefficients over time, preventing the instan-taneous validation loss spikes from propagating to the global model. This is simpler to implement and does not require the additional communication overhead. Recent work has also examined the communication cost of the federated learning in the hospital networks specifically. Nguyen et al. [18] studied the federated IDS convergence across the simulated hospital topologies and found that an adaptive client selection can reduce the total bytes transmitted by a 40% with a minimal accuracy loss. Our cosine annealing of the local learning rate per federated round achieves a similar effect: in the early rounds, when local models diverge rapidly, larger local steps accelerate the convergence; in the later rounds, when the global model is near optimal, the smaller steps prevent destructive local overfitting before aggregation. On CICDDoS 2019, the local learning rate decays from 10 −3 at round 1 to 3.94 ×10 −6 at round 25. 

2.3. Graph Neural Networks and Temporal Sequence Modelling for Intrusion Detection 

The field of network intrusion detection has undergone a transition from hand-engineered feature extractors toward end-to-end deep learning models that operate directly on raw or lightly processed traffic sequences. Graph Convolutional Networks have established strong baselines by exploiting both feature-level relational structure and the sequential ordering of network flows [22]. More recently, temporal graph constructions have been combined with GCN layers to allow the model to aggregate information from temporally proximate flow observations within a sliding window. 8Zhao et al. [20] demonstrated that temporal augmentation of deep ar-chitectures achieves significantly better detection of low-rate DDoS attacks, because the model can focus on the sub-second bursts that characterise ampli-fication attack traffic while down-weighting the surrounding baseline. Ullah et al. [21] applied a deep IoT traffic classifier to the TON-IoT benchmark, achieving 99.1% accuracy on nine-class classification, though their work did not incorporate Digital Twin anomaly gating or federated training. Li et al. [11] explored the integration of deep classifiers into federated settings for IoT security and found that EMA-weighted aggregation converges more stably than uniform FedAvg when clients have heterogeneous class distributions, a finding that directly motivates our aggregation design. It is important to note the architectural appropriateness of the Temporal GCN for flow-level datasets. The CICDDoS 2019 and TON-IoT datasets pro-vide pre-computed flow-level statistical features generated by CICFlowMeter; raw packet IP and port identifiers are dropped during feature extraction. The temporal graph is constructed from a k-nearest-neighbour edge index over window nodes. The graph, therefore, captures temporal flow correlations rather than device communication topology. The GNN-based approaches require an explicit device communication graph [22] and are therefore not applicable to these feature representations without re-processing the original PCAPs. The Temporal GCN operates on ordered windows of flow statistics, and, for these datasets, it is the architecturally appropriate choice. 

2.4. Honeypot Systems and Deception-Based Defense 

A honeypot holds a distinctive niche within the cybersecurity ecosys-tem: unlike detection systems that passively observe traffic, the honeypots actively interact with attackers, wasting adversary resources while simulta-neously harvesting high-fidelity intelligence. That intelligence covers attack tools, techniques, and procedures. In a systematic review of 47 honeypot deployments, Nawrocki et al. [7] quantified that high-interaction honeypots capture, on average 3.2× more sophisticated attacks than low-interaction alternatives. In the IoT context, honeypots face the additional challenge of emulating the specific protocol stacks and firmware behaviours of medical devices. Genç et al. [23] developed IoT-POT, a high-interaction honeypot capable of emu-lating 12 different device types and collected over 4,700 attacks in a 30-day deployment. Huang et al. [13] proposed an adaptive medical device honey-pot that adjusts its emulated vulnerability profile based on the attacker’s 9probing behaviour, increasing dwell time from an average of 4.2 minutes for static honeypots to over 18 minutes for adaptive implementations. Kumar et al. [24] integrated honeypot management directly with deep Q-learning, allowing the RL agent to decide in real time whether to redirect suspicious traffic to a honeypot or isolate it outright, achieving a 47% improvement in attacker engagement time. Our Enhanced Honeypot System builds on this RL-integration paradigm with adaptive threshold adjustment. The A2C agent’s HONEYPOT_REDIRECT action is selected based on the seven-dimensional state vector that captures both the GCN’s classification confidence and the Digital Twin’s anomaly score. An adaptive capture threshold τ begins at 0.70, decreasing by a factor of 0.95 every 10 successful captures (floor 0.40) and increasing by a factor of 1.05 every three failed captures (ceiling 0.90), producing redirect decisions that are substantially more precise than random or threshold-based policies. On the CICDDoS 2019, the thresholds stabilise at a 0.400 by round 4 for all three clients, reflecting a rapid calibration as the GCN’s high confidence scores consistently exceed the threshold for the true attacks. 

2.5. Reinforcement Learning for Adaptive Network Defense 

Reinforcement learning has emerged as a natural fit for the network de-fense. Because the problem structure matches the RL formalism. An agent observes a partially observable system state and selects from a discrete ac-tion space. The agent receives the reward signals whose optimisation aligns with the security objectives. Nguyen and Reddi [25] surveyed 124 deep RL applications in cybersecurity, identifying the intrusion response as the do-main where the RL most clearly outperforms the rule-based baselines, with reported improvements of 15–30% in the dynamic threat environments. Among the policy gradient methods applied to network defense, Advan-tage Actor-Critic provides a stable on-policy baseline that balances the sam-ple efficiency with the convergence stability for the discrete action spaces [12]. Zhou et al. [26] applied the PPO to DDoS mitigation in the IoT networks and achieved the 96.3% mitigation effectiveness while maintaining the 94.1% legitimate traffic throughput. Li et al. [11] extended the RL to the federated settings for the industrial IoT, demonstrating that aggregating the actor net-works with the uniform weights produces the more stable policies because the reward signal is not directly comparable across the non-IID clients. This finding motivates our design choice to aggregate the Temporal GCN models 10 with EMA-weighted coefficients while aggregating the A2C models with the uniform weights. 

2.6. Integrated Frameworks for IoMT Security 

Several recent works have combined the multiple technologies toward the comprehensive IoMT protection. Salim et al. [27] proposed DTFL-CD, a blockchain-enabled Digital Twin framework that integrates the federated learning with an anomaly threshold scoring mechanism for the early botnet detection in the IIoT environments. DTFL-CD achieved F1 scores of 0.98 on the CICDDoS 2019 but required the 48 federated rounds and exhibited the CPU utilisation between 44% and 71%. Its primary limitation is that it does not include an adaptive response component: once an anomaly is detected, the system raises an alert but delegates the response decision to the human operators, limiting its utility in the automated clinical environments. The closest prior integrated work to our framework is Fed-Inforce-Fusion [28], which combined federated learning with Q-learning-based reinforcement for security and privacy protection of IoMT networks. On the TON-IoT dataset, Fed-Inforce-Fusion achieved 99.40% accuracy and a 98.99% detec-tion rate across seven attack classes. However, several gaps remain: the Q-learning approach uses a discrete, tabular value function that does not scale gracefully to continuous state spaces; the system does not incorporate Digital Twin monitoring; and there is no honeypot integration. The Feder-ated TGCN-A2C framework addresses each of these gaps directly, achieving 99.48% on CICDDoS 2019 and 99.61% on TON-IoT while covering the full ten-class distribution, including the heavily imbalanced MITM class. 

2.7. Explainability in Deep Learning-Based Intrusion Detection 

The deployment of deep learning models in safety-critical healthcare en-vironments necessitates mechanisms that provide human-interpretable ev-idence for model decisions. SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) [43] provides theoretically grounded feature attributions based on cooperative game theory, and has been applied to network traffic classification to identify the flow statistics most predictive of attack behaviour. LIME (Local Inter-pretable Model-Agnostic Explanations) [44] approximates the local decision boundary of any classifier with a sparse linear model, enabling per-sample explanations without architectural modification. Grad-CAM [45], originally 11 proposed for convolutional networks, can be adapted to GCN-based mod-els by computing gradient-weighted activations over the node feature rep-resentations, producing spatial and temporal saliency maps that identify which nodes and features drove a classification. Counterfactual explanation methods [46] identify the minimal feature perturbation required to change a model’s prediction, providing contrastive evidence that is particularly use-ful for auditing false positives and false negatives in clinical settings. The Federated TGCN-A2C framework incorporates all four methods as a post-deployment explainability layer, operating on the trained Temporal GCN without modifying its architecture or inference pipeline. 

3. Problem Formulation 

We consider an IoT and IoMT deployment consisting of N heterogeneous devices distributed across K geographically separated healthcare facilities, each modelled as an independent federated client. The adversary possesses network access to at least one traffic segment and is capable of launching vol-umetric flooding, amplification attacks (DNS, NTP, SNMP, LDAP, MSSQL, NetBIOS, UDP), TCP SYN flooding, TFTP exploitation, backdoor estab-lishment, credential brute-forcing, injection attacks, man-in-the-middle in-terception, ransomware deployment, reconnaissance scanning, and cross-site scripting. The adversary is not assumed to have access to the training pro-cess, model parameters, or Digital Twin replicas, but may conduct slow, low-rate attacks designed to evade threshold-based detectors and may adapt tactics over time. The defender’s objective is twofold: classify each time win-dow of network flow statistics into the correct class with high accuracy, and select an appropriate response action in real time without disrupting clinical operations. Network traffic is modelled as a time-ordered sequence of F -dimensional flow-level feature vectors. Given observations {x1, x 2, . . . , x N } with associ-ated class labels ℓi ∈ { 0, 1, . . . , C − 1}, sliding windows of width W and step S are constructed as Wp = {xpS , x pS +1 , . . . , x pS +W −1}, with each win-dow assigned the majority class of its constituent samples. For each device 

i, a lightweight Digital Twin Ti trained on normal-class traffic produces a per-device anomaly score ai(t) = 1

> F

PFj=1 |x(t) 

> i,j

− ˆx(t) 

> i,j

| at inference time, pro-viding a complementary signal for detecting novel or stealthy attacks. The Temporal GCN fθ maps each window graph to a probability distribution over C classes modulated by ai, from which the A2C response agent ob-12 serves a seven-dimensional state s = [ pmax , min( H, 5.0) , min( ai, 5.0) , 1[ℓ =

cnormal ], n k/50000 , r normal , σ probs ] and selects from three actions: ALLOW, ISOLATE, and HONEYPOT_REDIRECT. Federated aggregation employs EMA-smoothed per-client validation losses ℓEMA  

> k

(r) = α ℓ k(r)+(1 −α) ℓEMA  

> k

(r−

1) as inverse weights wk = 1 /(ℓEMA  

> k

(r) + ε) to form the global model θr 

> global

=

PKk=1 (wk/ P 

> j

wj ) θrk, assigning higher weight to clients with lower smoothed validation loss while the ε term prevents numerical instability. 

4. Proposed Framework Architecture 

The Federated TGCN-A2C framework is organised into four coordinated layers, Device, Edge, Cloud, and Application, that together provide end-to-end security from individual device monitoring to global threat intelligence.   

> Figure 1: Four-layer Federated TGCN-A2C architecture showing Device, Edge, Cloud, and Application layers. The resilience manager overlay in the Edge Layer dynamically reallocates compute between operational processing and security functions across four threat levels (Level 0 to Level 3), ensuring clinical operational continuity at every stage of an active incident.

Figure 1 illustrates the overall architecture of the Federated TGCN-A2C framework. The Device Layer contains physical IoT and IoMT equipment that transmits encrypted flow statistics to the edge. The Edge Layer hosts the Digital Twins, Temporal GCN classifier, A2C response agent, and En-hanced Honeypot System as the primary computational site for real-time 13 threat detection and response. A resilience manager in the Edge Layer con-tinuously monitors the system threat level and dynamically reallocates edge compute between operational data processing and security functions, ranging from 70/30 at Level 0 up to 10/90 at Level 3, ensuring life-critical device ser-vices remain uninterrupted at every threat level. The Cloud Layer performs an EMA-weighted federated aggregation. It distributes the updated global models back to the clients. The Application Layer provides role-appropriate monitoring dashboards for the clinical staff and the security engineers, ex-posing per-device anomaly scores, honeypot capture rates, A2C action dis-tributions, and federated training progress. 

4.1. Device Layer 

The Device Layer consists of the physical IoT and IoMT endpoints, pace-makers, infusion pumps, monitoring wearables, industrial sensors, and the gateway devices. Each device transmits encrypted flow-level statistics to the edge gateway over TLS 1.3 with certificate-based mutual authentication and perfect forward secrecy. Patient raw data (e.g., ECG waveforms, glucose readings) never leaves the device at any point. Only pre-computed network flow features extracted by an on-device lightweight agent are transmitted. This design ensures that even a fully compromised edge gateway cannot re-construct the measurements of an individual patient. 

4.2. Edge Layer: Digital Twin, Temporal GCN, A2C, and Enhanced Honey-pot 

The Edge Layer is the primary computational site for real-time threat detection and response. It hosts four components per deployed client. 

4.2.1. Lightweight Digital Twin 

Each device i has a corresponding Digital Twin implemented as a single-layer LSTM with 64 hidden units. The twin is trained exclusively on win-dows whose majority label is the normal class, learning the device’s expected temporal traffic pattern under benign conditions. Training minimises the mean squared reconstruction error on the final-step feature vector. On CI-CDDoS 2019, the training on 23,982 normal-class windows converges with a loss declining from 0.396 at epoch 5 to 0.055 at epoch 70. This confirms that the LSTM captures the statistical regularity of the benign device traffic with high fidelity. A lower final loss indicates well-separated normal behaviour. On TON-IoT, the training perform on 10,667 normal-class windows. The 14 training converges similarly. This produces a discriminative anomaly signal. The signal meaningfully separates attack windows from normal windows at inference time. At inference time, the anomaly score is computed for every incoming window and used both as an A2C state component and as input to the Temporal GCN anomaly gate. 

4.2.2. Temporal Graph Convolutional Network 

The Temporal GCN is the primary classification component. It processes windows as graphs where each of the W time steps is a node, and edges are defined by a precomputed k-nearest-neighbour temporal edge index with 

k = 5 . A linear projection first maps each node from feature space to a H =128 dimensional hidden space with ReLU activation. Two GCNConv layers from PyTorch Geometric, then propagate node features over the temporal graph with dropout applied after each layer, implementing the normalised Laplacian aggregation H′ = ˜D−1/2 ˜A ˜D−1/2HW . A global mean pool reduces node-level representations to a graph-level embedding. The Digital Twin anomaly score ai enters the GCN through a learned per-class sigmoid gate: ˆy = fcls (hgraph ) · (1 .0 + g(ai)) , where fcls is a three-layer MLP and g is a two-layer MLP with sigmoid output producing a per-class scaling factor. When the Digital Twin anomaly score is near zero (normal-like traffic), the gate has no effect on the logits. When the anomaly score is large (anomalous traffic), the gate amplifies attack-class logits, increasing classification confidence on the attack side and reducing the likelihood of false negatives on novel attack variants whose flow statistics are ambiguous without the anomaly context. The Temporal GCN is trained with cross-entropy loss with label smooth-ing, AdamW optimiser, and cosine-annealed learning rate per federated round. Class-balanced training is ensured through a WeightedRandomSampler that assigns sample weights inversely proportional to class frequency in each client’s local partition, providing equal expected exposure for all classes per epoch, including heavily underrepresented classes such as mitm .

4.2.3. A2C Response Agent 

The A2C agent is a two-head neural network with a shared feature extrac-tor: two linear layers with 128 hidden units and ReLU activations, followed by an actor head that outputs action logits and a critic head that produces scalar value estimates. Weights are initialised with Xavier uniform initiali-sation. 15 During experience collection, the Temporal GCN is set to evaluation mode to stabilise the state representations. Experiences are collected from a bal-anced sample of attack and normal windows per client per round, preventing the agent from developing a bias toward the action that is most rewarding for the majority class in each client’s non-IID partition. For the A2C update, we rely on the standard actor-critic objective. A setting of 0.01 is used for an entropy regularisation coefficient. A discount factor γ = 0 .99 is employed, and a gradient clipping is applied at a norm of 1.0. A reward function oper-ates according to the following rules. A correct HONEYPOT_REDIRECT action for an attack receives a base reward of 4.0 together with a confidence bonus and an anomaly bonus. A correct ALLOW action for a normal traffic receives a reward of 2.5 plus a confidence bonus. A correct ISOLATE action for an attack receives a reward of 2.0 plus a confidence bonus. A penalty is applied to any incorrect action instead of a reward. A decay of an explo-ration rate occurs from an initial value of 0.30 down to a minimum value of 0.05 per round. This gradual rate of decay ensures a sufficient level of early exploration across an action space. 

4.2.4. Enhanced Honeypot System 

Enhanced Honeypot System: An interception of traffic segments is per-formed by this system. For each intercepted segment, a HONEYPOT_REDIRECT action is selected by the A2C agent. A maintenance of cumulative statistics is also performed by the system. These statistics include a total number of attempts, a number of successful captures, a number of failed captures, an attack type distribution, an average confidence value, and a per-round performance history.There is an adaptive capture threshold τ that begins at 0.70. It decreases by a factor of 0.95 every 10 successful captures (floor 0.40), and it increases by a factor of 1.05 every three failed captures (ceiling 0.90). On the CICDDoS 2019 dataset, the thresholds stabilise at 0.400 by round 4 for all three clients. These results reflect rapid calibration as the GCN’s high confidence scores consistently exceed the threshold for true at-tacks from early rounds onward. The Enhanced Honeypot System logs full feature vectors. It logs GCN probability distributions, Digital Twin anomaly scores, and timestamps for each captured event. In this way, it populates a growing threat intelligence database. 16 4.3. Cloud Layer: Federated Aggregation and Global Intelligence 

At the Cloud Layer, client model updates are aggregated. It uses EMA-weighted FedAvg for the Temporal GCN, and it uses a uniform FedAvg for the A2C agents. For the GCN, aggregation weights are computed as the inverse of the EMA-smoothed validation loss: wrk = (1 /(ℓEMA  

> k

(r) + 

ε)) / PKj=1 (1 /(ℓEMA  

> j

(r) + ε)) , with ε = 10 −6. A2C models are aggregated with uniform weights. The reason for this difference is that return estimates un-der different non-IID reward distributions are not directly comparable across clients. The server then evaluates the global Temporal GCN on the held-out validation and test partitions. It saves a checkpoint whenever the valida-tion accuracy improves. Early stopping is activated when the 5-round rolling mean validation F1 change falls below 3 × 10 −4 and also activates when the mean exceeds 0.97. This occurs after round 19. Additionally, the Cloud Layer also aggregates honeypot capture logs from all clients, thereby building a global threat intelligence database. 

4.4. Application Layer 

At the Application Layer, the system’s security posture is exposed through a web-based dashboard that provides a real-time visualisation of per-device anomaly scores, honeypot capture rates and precision, A2C action distribu-tions, and federated training progress. Role-appropriate interfaces are pro-vided for clinical staff and security engineers. Traffic at the Application Layer is isolated from clinical device communication networks and authenticated through role-based access control. 

4.5. Complete Framework Algorithm 

A complete procedure for the Federated TGCN-A2C framework is pre-sented in Algorithm 1. The procedure is organized as a set of three sequential phases: an offline initialisation phase, a federated training phase, and a live deployment phase. A guarantee of operational continuity applies to all three phases. 17 Algorithm 1 Federated TGCN-A2C: Main Federated Training and Infer-ence Workflow 

Input: K clients with local data, R federated rounds, EMA factor α = 0 .4, early stopping threshold 0.97 

Output: Trained global classifier, response policy, and threat database 

Phase 1: Initialization 

2: Build a temporal k-NN edge index with k = 5 for the sliding window size W and share it across all clients to avoid redundant graph construction during training 

3: Train a Digital Twin model for each client using only normal traffic samples until the reconstruction error stops decreasing significantly 

4: Initialize the global Temporal GCN and A2C policy networks with Xavier uniform weights 

5: Deploy Enhanced Honeypot Systems for each client with an initial adaptive capture threshold of 

τ = 0 .70 

6: Set up Exponential Moving Average loss trackers for every client, initially set to zero 

Phase 2: Federated Training (Repeated for R rounds) 

7: for each federated round r = 1 to R do 

8: Compute the cosine-annealed learning rate for this round as lr r = lr 0 × 0.5 × (1 + cos( πr/R )) 

9: for each client k = 1 to K in parallel do 

10: Download the latest global Temporal GCN and A2C models from the central server 

11: Train the Temporal GCN locally on the client’s data for 70 epochs using class-balanced sam-pling and the anomaly gate driven by Digital Twin reconstruction error 

12: Compute the validation loss on the client’s held-out set and update its EMA-smoothed loss value using the factor α = 0 .4

13: Switch the Temporal GCN to evaluation mode to collect stable A2C training experiences 

14: Build a balanced experience buffer containing equal numbers of attack and normal traffic samples 

15: For each experience, compute the Digital Twin anomaly score, construct the seven-dimensional state vector, sample an A2C action with a decayed exploration rate, and compute the structured reward 

16: If the selected action is HONEYPOT_REDIRECT and the traffic is a confirmed attack, engage the Enhanced Honeypot and adjust the adaptive threshold based on capture success 

17: Perform the A2C gradient update with entropy regularisation and clip the gradient norm to 1.0 

18: Upload the updated local Temporal GCN weights, A2C weights, and EMA validation loss back to the server 

19: end for 

20: Calculate aggregation weights for each client as the inverse of their EMA validation loss, adding a small constant ε to avoid division by zero 

21: Normalize these weights so they sum to one across all clients 

22: Aggregate all client Temporal GCN models into a new global model using the normalized weights, giving higher influence to clients with lower validation loss 

23: Aggregate all client A2C models into a new global A2C model using uniform averaging with equal weight for every client 

24: Evaluate the new global Temporal GCN on the central validation and test sets 

25: if validation accuracy has improved compared to the previous best value then 

26: Save the current global Temporal GCN and A2C models as the new best checkpoint 

27: end if 

28: if round ≥ 19 and the 5-round rolling F1 change is below 3 × 10 −4 and the mean F1 exceeds 0.97 

then 

29: break 

30: end if 

31: end for Phase 3: Real-Time Inference 

32: while the system is operational do 

33: For each active device, compute an anomaly score using its trained Digital Twin by measuring reconstruction error on the latest traffic window 

34: Pass the recent traffic window graph through the Temporal GCN to obtain probability scores for each possible attack class, modulated by the anomaly gate 

35: Build a seven-dimensional state vector containing: highest class probability, entropy of the prob-ability distribution, Digital Twin anomaly score, normal traffic indicator, normalized client sample count, normal traffic ratio, and standard deviation of class probabilities 

36: Feed this state vector to the trained A2C policy network to select one of three possible actions: forward traffic normally, quarantine the suspicious device, or redirect traffic to the honeypot for intelligence gathering 

37: Execute the selected action; if the action is HONEYPOT_REDIRECT, log the full traffic fea-tures, GCN probabilities, anomaly score, and timestamp to the threat intelligence database 

38: Reassess threat level and reallocate edge resources per the four-level degradation policy. 

39: end while 

18 The Federated TGCN-A2C algorithm is organized into three sequential phases that together provide a complete cyber-resilient security solution for IoT and IoMT networks. 

Phase 1 (Lines 3–7) – Initialization: This phase executes only once before any federated training begins. Line 3 precomputes the temporal k-NN edge index shared across all windows, to avoide redundant graph construction during training. Then line 4 trains a lightweight LSTM-based Digital Twin for each client. A key detail: training happens exclusively on normal-class windows. This establishes a behavioural baseline for each device without requiring any labelled attack data. The twin is trained until reconstruction loss plateaus, confirming that the LSTM captures the statistical regularity of benign traffic with high fidelity. Line 5 initialises the global Temporal GCN and A2C policy networks with Xavier uniform weights, which will be improved through federated training. Line 6 deploys Enhanced Honeypot Systems with an initial adaptive capture threshold τ = 0 .70 . Line 7 sets up EMA loss trackers for every client, initially set to zero, which will smooth val-idation losses across rounds to prevent sudden fluctuations from destabilising the aggregation weights. 

Phase 2 (Lines 9–27) – Federated Training: This phase executes for up to R federated rounds. At the beginning of each round, the cosine-annealed learning rate is computed (Line 10) and applied to all client GCN optimisers. Every client in parallel downloads the latest global models (Line 12). Line 13 performs local Temporal GCN training for 70 epochs using class-balanced WeightedRandomSampler and the anomaly gate that ampli-fies attack-class logits when the Digital Twin detects anomalous behaviour. After local training, Line 14 computes the validation loss and updates the EMA-smoothed loss with factor α = 0 .4, giving 40% weight to the current round’s loss and 60% to the historical average. Line 15 switches the GCN to evaluation mode and collects 200 balanced A2C experiences. A seven-dimensional state is constructed at Line 16. This state draws from four sources: a set of GCN output probabilities, an entropy value, a Digital Twin anomaly score, and a set of traffic composition statistics. A sampling of actions occurs at the same line using a decayed exploration mechanism. Fol-lowing this, a computation of structured rewards is performed. A honeypot engagement occurs at Line 17 for a purpose of confirmed attack re-directions, and an adjustment of the adaptive threshold takes place based on a capture success status. A gradient update for the A2C is performed at Line 18. A 19 set of local models together with an EMA loss value is uploaded to the server at Line 19. Lines 20–27 perform server-side aggregation and evaluation. Line 20 com-putes EMA-inverse aggregation weights. Clients with lower validation loss receive a stronger influence in the global GCN through these weights. Line 21 normalises the weights. Line 22 aggregates GCN models with EMA weights. Line 23 aggregates A2C models with uniform weights. Since reward distri-butions are not directly comparable across non-IID client partitions. Line 24 evaluates the global model on the validation and test sets. Line 25 saves a checkpoint when validation accuracy improves. Lines 26–27 implement early stopping. Early stopping activates once the rolling F1 has converged and the rolling f1 has also exceeded the 0.97 threshold for five consecutive rounds. 

Phase 3 (Lines 29–36) – Real-Time Inference: This phase runs con-tinuously once training has completed. Starting with line 30: it computes an anomaly score for each active device. How? By running the device’s latest traffic window through the trained Digital Twin and then measuring the re-construction error. A higher score means the device’s behaviour has deviated significantly from the learned normal baseline. Line 31 passes the same traffic window graph through the Temporal GCN, with the anomaly gate modulat-ing the output logits. Line 32 constructs the seven-dimensional state vector that captures the current security situation through seven components: the first is highest class probability (representing confidence in the most likely classification), the second is entropy of the probability distribution (uncer-tainty), the third is anomaly score from the Digital Twin, the fourth is a binary indicator of whether is traffic appears normal, the fifth is normalised sample count for this client, the sixth is the ratio of normal traffic seen by this client, and seventh is the standard deviation of class probabilities. Line 33 feeds this state vector to the trained A2C policy network. Network out-puts a categorical distribution over three possible actions. The action with the highest probability gets selected. Line 34 executes the selected action: ALLOW forwards traffic normally to its destination, ISOLATE quarantines the suspicious device, and it also activates redundant communication paths to maintain clinical operations, and the HONEYPOT_REDIRECT silently diverts the traffic to the Enhanced Honeypot System for forensic analysis. For a given honeypot redirect event, a logging of several information pieces to a threat intelligence database is performed by the system. These pieces include a set of full traffic features, a set of GCN probabilities, an anomaly score value, and a timestamp. A movement to line number 35 then triggers 20 an update of the overall system threat level and such an update is based on a sequence of recent actions, and a reallocation of edge computing resources follows according to the graduated degradation policy. Under this policy, a Level 0 receives a 70/30 split, a 70% allocation for operational processing and a 30% allocation for security. A Level 1 uses a 50/50 split, while a Level 2 shifts toward a 30% portion for operational processing and a 70% portion for security. Level 3 goes to 10% operational processing and 90% security. This graduating degradation ensures that life-critical medical func-tions always receive sufficient computational resources even during the active attacks. 

4.6. Time Complexity Analysis 

The computational complexity of the Federated TGCN-A2C framework scales as O(R · E · N · W · (kH + H2)) for the dominant Temporal GCN training component, where R is the number of federated rounds, E is the number of local epochs per round, N is the number of training windows per client, W is the sliding window length, k is the graph neighbourhood size, and 

H = 128 is the GCN hidden dimension. The kH term arises from GCNConv neighbourhood aggregation over k-nearest temporal neighbours and the H2

term from the hidden-to-hidden transformation at each GCN layer. The anomaly gate adds a smaller term O(N · H · C) for per-class sigmoid scaling. Digital Twin training incurs a one-time offline cost of O(Edt · Nnormal · W ·

hdt · F ), where Edt is the number of twin training epochs, Nnormal is the count of normal-class windows, hdt = 64 is the LSTM hidden dimension, and F is the input feature dimension. The A2C update contributes O(Ba2c ·

H2

> a2c

) per round, where Ba2c = 200 experiences and Ha2c = 128 . On the server, federated aggregation requires O(K · P ) per round, where K is the number of clients, and P is the GCN parameter count, a cost that is negligible compared to local training. The K clients operate in parallel, reducing wall-clock time by a factor of K. For real-time inference on a single window, the Temporal GCN requires O(W · (kH + H2)) for GCNConv propagation and global pooling, The Digital Twin requires O(W ·hdt ·F ), and the A2C decision adds O(H2

> a2c

). Under the deployed hyperparameter settings ( H = 128 , W =25 –40 , F = 16 –65 ), the total inference latency remains under 50 milliseconds. This comfortably satisfies the real-time requirements of intensive care unit monitoring systems. 21 5. Experimental Evaluation 

A presentation of the experimental setup, a set of datasets, a description of training dynamics, and a collection of comparative results for the Fed-erated TGCN-A2C framework is provided in this section. A description of two benchmark datasets together with their preprocessing pipelines serves as a starting point. An extension of the coverage then follows toward a fed-erated training progression, a per-class performance analysis, an evaluation of honeypot effectiveness, and a comparison against a set of state-of-the-art baselines. 

5.1. Datasets 5.1.1. CICDDoS 2019 Dataset 

CICDDoS 2019 dataset [29]: This dataset was created by the Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity. It represents one of the most comprehensive publicly available benchmarks for DDoS detection research. It captures the network traffic from a controlled testbed environment, where a traffic gen-erator produces 18 labelled classes within that environment. These classes include a benign class and 17 distinct DDoS attack categories, covering both reflection/amplification and direct exploitation techniques. Raw records total 431,371 flow entries across 78 feature columns generated by the CICFlowMe-ter tool. After preprocessing, we removed columns with missingness exceeding 50%, dropping identifier fields, coercing all remaining columns to numeric types, and applying column-wise median imputation for residual missing values. After these steps, 65 features were retained. Extreme values were clipped to standard deviation bounds, and per-feature standardisation was fitted exclusively on the training split to prevent data leakage. Sliding win-dows with a width of 25 and a step of 2 produced 215,674 temporal windows distributed across 16 classes. The two smallest raw classes had insufficient samples for majority-vote window labelling, so they do not appear in the fi-nal windowed dataset. A stratified 64%/16%/20% train/validation/test split yields 138,031, 34,508, and 43,135 windows, respectively. The Digital Twin was trained on 23,982 normal-class training windows. For the three non-IID client partitions, we obtained 47,020, 46,991, and 44,020 training windows, respectively. Client 0 carries TFTP as its dominant class (38.7%). Client 1 carries DrDoS_NTP as its dominant class (38.6%), and Client 2 carries a more balanced distribution. 22 5.1.2. TON-IoT Dataset 

TON-IoT Dataset [30]: Developed at UNSW Canberra the Ton-IoT dataset is a next-generation telemetry benchmark. The benchmark specifically eval-uates AI-based security solutions in heterogeneous IoT/IIoT environments. Unlike older IDS benchmarks that capture only the network-layer features, TON-IoT integrates three data types. These are OS-level telemetry, IoT sensor readings, and network flow statistics. The version used in this work contains 211,043 records spanning 10 classes. These classes include nor-mal traffic and nine attack categories. The MITM category has only 1,043 records, creating severe class imbalance. This severe class imbalance of the MITM category provides a stringent test of the framework’s ability to learn from underrepresented attack types under the federated non-IID partition-ing. After preprocessing and feature selection, the 16 features were retained. Sliding windows with a width of 40 and a step of 3 produce 70,335 temporal windows. The window construction parameters are chosen to match the temporal extent of dominant attack signatures: shorter windows suffice for volumetric flooding attacks, which manifest within the sub-second bursts, while the longer windows are required for behavioural attacks. Behavioral attacks include ransomware, scanning, and credential stuffing. These attacks develop over an extended interaction sequence. A stratified 60%/20%/20% split yields 45,014, 11,254, and 14,067 windows, with the three non-IID clients receiving approximately 15,858, 14,578, and 14,578 training windows. The Digital Twin was trained on 10,667 normal-class training windows. 

5.2. Experimental Setup 

All experiments were conducted on Kaggle’s GPU environment using Py-Torch with PyTorch Geometric (PyG) for graph neural network operations. The complete hyperparameter configuration is summarised in Table 1. For CICDDoS 2019, the Temporal GCN uses 2 GCNConv layers with hidden dimension 128, an initial learning rate of 10 −3 for Clients 0 and 2 and 10 −4

for Client 1, with cosine annealing per round and AdamW with weight decay 

10 −5. Client 1 uses a lower learning rate to reflect its different local distri-bution and smaller relative influence. Both datasets share the same local training regime of 70 epochs per federated round with batch size 128, EMA smoothing factor 0.4, and A2C hyperparameters including discount factor 0.99, entropy coefficient 0.01, and gradient clip norm 1.0. Label smooth-ing ϵ = 0 .02 is applied during cross-entropy loss computation to prevent 23 overconfidence after federated aggregation, and a WeightedRandomSampler ensures class-balanced mini-batches throughout training. A scheduling of the local learning rate per round is handled by a cosine annealing mechanism. Larger steps are taken during early rounds to achieve a rapid convergence, while smaller steps are used in later rounds for a prevention of destructive overfitting before an aggregation occurs. 24 Table 1: Experimental Configuration Parameters for Both Datasets 

Parameter CICDDoS 2019 TON-IoT 

Raw records / total windows 431,371 / 215,674 211,043 / 70,335 Features retained 65 16 Attack classes 16 10 Train / Val / Test windows 138,031 / 34,508 / 43,135 45,014 / 11,254 /14,067 Client partition sizes 47,020 / 46,991 /44,020 ~15,858 / 14,578 / 14,578 Window size W / Step S 25 / 2 40 / 3 Graph k-NN neighbours 5 5Number of federated clients 3 3Maximum federated rounds 25 (60 max) 13 (60 max) GCN hidden dim H 128 128 GCN layers 2 (GCNConv) 2 (GCNConv) GCN learning rate (C0/C2) 1 × 10 −3 1 × 10 −3

GCN learning rate (C1) 1 × 10 −4 1 × 10 −4

GCN LR schedule Cosine annealing Cosine annealing GCN optimiser AdamW, λ = 10 −5 AdamW, λ = 10 −5

Label smoothing ϵ 0.02 0.02 Local epochs per round 70 70 Local batch size 128 128 GCN gradient clip norm 1.0 1.0 A2C state dimension 7 7A2C action space 3 3A2C learning rate (C0/C2) 3 × 10 −5 3 × 10 −5

A2C learning rate (C1) 1.5 × 10 −5 1.5 × 10 −5

A2C discount factor γ 0.99 0.99 A2C entropy coefficient 0.01 0.01 A2C gradient clip norm 1.0 1.0 EMA smoothing factor α 0.4 0.4 Digital Twin LSTM hidden units 64 64 Digital Twin training epochs 70 70 Digital Twin final loss 5.5 × 10 −2 converged Honeypot initial threshold τ 0.70 0.70 Learning rate schedule Cosine annealing Cosine annealing 

25 Figure 2: Test accuracy, weighted-F1, macro-F1, training loss, honeypot captures, and EMA weight progression across federated rounds for CICDDoS 2019. 

Figure 2 presents the comprehensive training progression on CICDDoS 2019 across six performance dimensions. Looking first at test accuracy, we see rapid convergence across training rounds. Round 1 Starts effectively 0% before any global aggregation happens, each client’s independently trained model can only predict its own dominant class. But after the first global ag-gregation, the accuracy jumps sharply to 86.77% at round 2, then improves further to 97.17% at round 3, reaches 97.77% at round 4, and keeps climb-ing steadily afterward until it reaches 99.48% at round 25. This monotonic improvement after round 2 reflects the EMA-weighted aggregation strategy, which client weights stable between 0.330–0.337 range for the entire train-ing process. Now consider the macro-F1 score. Its path looks similar to test accuracy: Starting from 0.0000 at round 1 to 0.6237 at round 2, that initial rise reflects trouble with minority classes such as DrDoS_DNS and DrDoS_NetBIOS. The score then recovers strongly. By round 3, the score reaches 0.9133 and reached 0.9840 by round 25, while the weighted-F1 score 26 achieved 0.9948 at round 25, which confirms strong performance across all 16 DDoS categories. The GCN training loss declines steadily, from approxi-mately 0.244 per round at round 1 to below 0.162 by round 25. This reflects the convergence of the local GCN models. The honeypot captures increase monotonically from 99 at round 1 to 33,521 by round 25. In later stages, cap-tures accumulate at approximately 1,300–1,500 per round as the GCN’s high confidence scores enable consistent redirection decisions. Adaptive thresholds for the honeypot converge from 0.700 to 0.400 by round 4 for all three clients and remain there for the remaining 21 rounds. Finally, EMA aggregation weights stay stable in the 0.330–0.337 range across all 25 rounds, eliminat-ing the weight oscillations that you would normally see with raw inverse-loss weighting.  

> Figure 3: Test accuracy, weighted-F1, macro-F1, training loss, honeypot captures, and EMA weight progression across federated rounds for TON-IoT.

Figure 3 illustrates the more complex training dynamics on TON-IoT across the same six performance dimensions, revealing the framework’s re-27 silience to non-IID client drift. The test accuracy and macro-F1 curves ex-hibit a distinctive pattern: slow initial convergence occurs, starting from 23.69% accuracy and a macro-F1 of 0.0383 at round 1. A significant im-provement then follows, reaching 85.19% and 0.7890 by round 3. The curves cross a critical convergence threshold at round 9, where accuracy reaches 98.91%, and macro-F1 achieves 0.9805. This reflects successful learning of discriminative boundaries for all ten classes include the severely underrep-resented MITM category. Performance reaches 99.61% test accuracy and a macro-F1 0.9912 by round 10. However, late-round oscillations occur at rounds 12–13. These oscillations arise when one client’s exceptional local model influences aggregation asymmetrically, and subsequent local updates from other clients pull decision boundaries toward their own partition dis-tributions. The EMA mechanism partially dampens this effect. The best model checkpoint from round 10 is used for the final evaluation. Honeypot captures increase monotonically from 90 at round 1 to 9,206 across the full training run, with the accumulation rate accelerating after round 5. This acceleration occurs as the GCN’s improved classification enables more con-fident redirection decisions. The consistently high weighted-F1 stays above 0.99 from round 5 onward. This remains true despite the late-round oscilla-tions, confirming that the majority of classes maintain strong classification throughout. 

Summary of Training Dynamics 

When we examine the six-dimensional performance analysis across both datasets, several key characteristics of the Federated TGCN-A2C framework emerge. First, the EMA-weighted FedAvg aggregation strategy successfully stabilises global model updates under non-IID client distributions on CICD-DoS 2019. Evidence for this includes monotonic improvement after round 2 and stable EMA weights in the 0.330–0.337 range. On TON-IoT, stabili-sation is partially effective: strong performance is achieved by round 9–10, but late-round oscillations occur due to a smaller dataset and more extreme class imbalance. Second, Temporal GCN with anomaly-gated classification achieves strong convergence within 10–25 federated rounds on both datasets. Test accuracy reaches 99.48% on CICDDoS 2019 and 99.61% on TON-IoT. Third, the Digital Twin training is efficient. Twin loss decreases from 0.396 at epoch 5 to 0.055 at epoch 70 on CICDDoS 2019. This provides a well-calibrated anomaly signal. Fourth, the honeypot system accumulates 33,521 and 9,206 verified captures on the two datasets, respectively. Client-level 28 attack success rates consistently above 99% in later rounds. Finally, the WeightedRandomSampler combined with label smoothing provides effective minority class coverage: all 16 CICDDoS 2019 classes achieve F1 ≥ 0.9237 and all 10 classes of TON-IoTachieve F1 ≥ 0.9488, including the severely underrepresented MITM class. This validates the integrated design of the Federated TGCN-A2C framework, where improvements in the GCN classifier propagate to A2C policy effectiveness and honeypot intelligence accumula-tion. 

5.3. CICDDoS 2019 Training Results 

Table 2 presents the complete round-by-round training progression on CICDDoS 2019 at selected rounds. 

> Table 2: CICDDoS 2019 Federated Training Progress (Selected Rounds)

Round Val Acc Test Acc Test Macro F1 HP Captures EMA Wt Range 

1 0.0001 0.0000 0.0000 99 [0.336, 0.335] 2 0.8668 0.8677 0.6237 200 [0.333, 0.336] 3 0.9721 0.9717 0.9133 294 [0.332, 0.337] 4 0.9776 0.9777 0.9395 410 [0.333, 0.337] 5 0.9784 0.9786 0.9416 491 [0.332, 0.337] 7 0.9863 0.9865 0.9605 705 [0.334, 0.335] 10 0.9899 0.9909 0.9717 1,027 [0.334, 0.335] 15 0.9924 0.9927 0.9784 1,564 [0.334, 0.333] 20 0.9937 0.9939 0.9813 2,067 [0.333, 0.334] 25 0.9943 0.9948 0.9840 2,578 [0.332, 0.335] Best val weighted F1 0.9943 at round 25 Best test accuracy 0.9948 at round 25 Best test macro-F1 0.9840 at round 25 Total HP captures 33,521 across 25 rounds Client 0 attack success 100.0% at rounds 4–25 The honeypot system accumulated 33,521 verified attack captures mono-tonically across 25 rounds, with per-client attack success rates reaching 100%, 99.9%, and 99.2% by the later stages of training. Table 3 presents per-class test results using the best-saved model checkpoint at round 25. 29 Table 3: CICDDoS 2019 Per-Class Test Results at Round 25 (Best-Saved Model) 

Class Accuracy F1 Precision Recall Support 

Benign 0.9992 0.9996 1.0000 0.9992 7,494 DrDoS_DNS 0.9973 0.9986 1.0000 0.9973 366 DrDoS_LDAP 1.0000 0.9965 0.9931 1.0000 144 DrDoS_MSSQL 0.9597 0.9597 0.9597 0.9597 621 DrDoS_NetBIOS 1.0000 0.9836 0.9677 1.0000 60 DrDoS_NTP 1.0000 1.0000 0.9999 1.0000 12,137 DrDoS_SNMP 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 272 DrDoS_UDP 0.9175 0.9237 0.9300 0.9175 1,042 LDAP 0.9953 0.9930 0.9907 0.9953 213 MSSQL 0.9702 0.9702 0.9702 0.9702 840 NetBIOS 1.0000 0.9877 0.9756 1.0000 40 Portmap 0.9706 0.9851 1.0000 0.9706 68 Syn 0.9990 0.9992 0.9994 0.9990 5,182 TFTP 1.0000 0.9999 0.9998 1.0000 12,180 UDP 0.9527 0.9479 0.9431 0.9527 1,584 UDP-lag 1.0000 0.9994 0.9989 1.0000 892 

Overall 0.9948 0.9840 (macro) 0.9830 0.9851 43,135 

Eight of sixteen classes achieve perfect recall (1.0000), and ten achieve F1 ≥ 0.9965. The lowest-performing classes are DrDoS_UDP (F1 = 0.9237) and DrDoS_MSSQL (F1 = 0.9597). DrDoS_UDP is a known challenging class because UDP traffic can be either attack or benign depending on subtle rate and payload characteristics; DrDoS_MSSQL is challenging primarily due to the proximity of its flow signatures to benign MSSQL traffic at its relatively small support size of 621 windows. Both remain above 0.92 F1, which is competitive with the best published results on this benchmark. 

5.4. TON-IoT Training Results 

Table 4 presents the complete round-by-round training progression on TON-IoT at selected rounds. 30 Table 4: TON-IoT Federated Training Progress (Selected Rounds) 

Round Val Acc Test Acc Test Macro F1 HP Captures Client Wts 

1 0.2369 0.2369 0.0383 90 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 2 0.4400 0.4367 0.3151 178 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 3 0.8558 0.8519 0.7890 282 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 4 0.9700 0.9711 0.9467 389 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 6 0.9730 0.9753 0.9591 609 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 9 0.9879 0.9891 0.9805 921 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 10 0.9950 0.9961 0.9912 1,009 [0.333, 0.333, 0.333] 11 0.9950 0.9957 0.9883 1,128 [0.333, 0.332, 0.334] Best val accuracy 0.9950 at rounds 10–11 Best test accuracy 0.9961 at round 10 Best test macro-F1 0.9912 at round 10 Total HP captures 9,206 across 13 rounds Client 0 attack success 100.0% at rounds 4–13 Table 5 presents per-class test results at round 10 (best test accuracy round). All ten classes achieve F1 ≥ 0.9488, confirming strong perfor-mance across the full class distribution. The most notable result is the mitm 

class: with only 104 test samples out of 21,102 total (0.49%), the framework achieves 98.08% recall and F1 = 0.9488, a direct consequence of the Weight-edRandomSampler giving each MITM training sample proportionally much higher expected exposure per epoch. 31 Table 5: TON-IoT Per-Class Test Results at Round 10 (Best Test Round) 

Class Type Accuracy F1 Precision Recall Support 

backdoor Attack 0.9995 0.9903 0.9813 0.9995 1,999 ddos Attack 0.9965 0.9970 0.9975 0.9965 2,000 dos Attack 0.9965 0.9980 0.9995 0.9965 2,000 injection Attack 0.9975 0.9975 0.9975 0.9975 2,000 mitm Attack 0.9808 0.9488 0.9189 0.9808 104 normal Normal 0.9994 0.9987 0.9980 0.9994 5,000 password Attack 0.9990 0.9995 1.0000 0.9990 2,000 ransomware Attack 0.9965 0.9975 0.9985 0.9965 2,000 scan Attack 0.9780 0.9886 0.9995 0.9780 2,000 xss Attack 0.9975 0.9960 0.9945 0.9975 1,999 

Overall — 0.9961 0.9912 (macro) 0.9885 0.9941 21,102 

5.5. Final Evaluation Summary 

Table 6 presents a consolidated view of the best achieved performance across both datasets. 

> Table 6: Final Evaluation Summary – Best-Saved Checkpoint

Dataset Split Accuracy Macro F1 Wtd F1 Best Round Val-Test Gap 

CICDDoS 2019 Train 0.9997 0.9990 0.9997 — —Val 0.9943 — 0.9943 25 —Test 0.9948 0.9840 0.9948 25 0.0005 TON-IoT Train 0.9967 — 0.9967 — —Val 0.9950 — 0.9950 10 —Test 0.9961 0.9912 0.9961 10 0.0011 The validation-test gap is at most 0.0011 on TON-IoT and 0.0005 on CI-CDDoS 2019, confirming that the models generalise well without overfitting to the validation set used for checkpoint selection. The small train-test gap on CICDDoS 2019 (train 0.9997 vs. test 0.9948) confirms that the Weighte-dRandomSampler, label smoothing, and cosine-annealed learning rates pre-vent overfitting even across 25 rounds of 70 local epochs each. 32 5.6. Honeypot Effectiveness Analysis 

Table 7 summarises honeypot performance across both datasets over their respective training runs. 

Table 7: Honeypot Performance Summary 

Dataset True Attack Captures Rounds Client 0 Att. Succ. Client 1 Att. Succ. Client 2 Att. Succ. Final Threshold 

CICDDoS 2019 33,521 25 100.0% 99.9% 99.2% 0.400 TON-IoT 9,206 13 100.0% 99.9% 99.2% 0.400 

On CICDDoS 2019, the adaptive threshold converged rapidly from 0.700 to 0.400 by round 4 for all three clients and stayed there for the remaining 21 rounds. This reflects that once the global model had aggregated sufficient knowledge, the GCN’s high confidence scores for genuine attacks consistently exceeded the threshold. Total captures reached 33,521 over 25 rounds, ac-cumulating at roughly 1,300–1,500 per round in later stages, representing a substantial intelligence database. On TON-IoT, 9,206 captures over 13 rounds following the same threshold convergence pattern. The consistently high attack success rates (99.2%–100%) across both datasets confirm that the A2C agent’s HONEYPOT_REDIRECT selections are highly precise: when the Temporal GCN and anomaly gate agree that traffic is anomalous and the agent redirects it, the vast majority of redirections capture genuine attack traffic. 

5.7. Comparative Analysis 

Table 8 compares the Federated TGCN-A2C framework with existing federated learning approaches evaluated on CICDDoS 2019. 

Table 8: Comparison with Federated Learning-Based Approaches (CICDDoS 2019)                                   

> Study Accuracy (%) F1 Score CPU Usage Rounds/Epochs Dataset
> Popoola et al. [31] 95–98 0.92–0.97 NR 92–100 rounds NSL-KDD, Bot-IoT Naeem et al. [32] 95 NR NR >100k epochs 6G simulation Zhang et al. [8] 95.97 0.79 NR NR IIoT Li et al. [33] NR 0.93 NR 3–7 rounds CIC-IDS2018 DTFL-CD [27] NR 0.98 44–71% 48 rounds CICDDoS 2019
> Proposed System 99.48 0.9840 (macro) 40–44% 25 rounds CICDDoS 2019

33 The Federated TGCN-A2C achieves 99.48% accuracy with macro-F1 0.9840 across 16 DDoS classes in 25 federated rounds. Compared to DTFL-CD, this represents a 48% reduction in communication rounds (25 vs. 48) while match-ing the lower end of DTFL-CD’s CPU utilisation range (40–44% vs. 44–71%) and adding adaptive A2C response and honeypot intelligence capabilities. Compared to Popoola et al., the framework converges in significantly fewer rounds while evaluating on the more challenging 16-class CICDDoS 2019 benchmark. Table 9 compares the Federated TGCN-A2C framework with IDS and federated IDS baselines on TON-IoT. 

Table 9: Comparison with Intrusion Detection Systems on TON-IoT                                                            

> Study Method Accuracy (%) F1 Detection Rate (%) Classes Privacy
> Chen et al. [34] Federated TL 99.13 NR 96.85 NR Yes Li et al. [35] Federated CNN 99.20 NR 97.47 NR Yes Schneble &Thamilarasu [36] Federated RF 98.17 NR 96.45 NR Yes Nguyen et al. [37] Federated anomaly 99.09 NR 96.34 NR Yes Hossen et al. [38] Federated MLP 94.15 NR NR NR Yes Xu et al. [39] Centralised DNN 86.86 NR NR NR No Fan et al. [40] Federated GAN 74.19 NR NR NR Yes Fed-Inforce-Fusion [28] Fed. + Q-learning 99.40 0.9940 98.99 7Yes
> Proposed System
> Fed. TGCN + A2C + DT 99.61 0.9912 99.61 10 Yes

The Federated TGCN-A2C outperforms the best prior result on TON-IoT, Fed-Inforce-Fusion at 99.40% accuracy, by 0.21 percentage points ab-solute while simultaneously covering 3 additional attack classes (10 vs. 7) and replacing Q-learning’s tabular value function with the scalable A2C pol-icy gradient method. The framework also improves upon all centralised and federated baselines across the detection rate metric while maintaining full privacy preservation through local-only data retention. 34 Figure 4: CPU utilisation comparison across ATES threshold values for the Federated TGCN-A2C versus DTFL-CD. 

Figure 4 shows CPU utilisation as a function of the ATES early stop-ping threshold for both frameworks. DTFL-CD exhibits rising resource con-sumption in the 63–71% range as the early stopping threshold becomes more stringent, because its ANN-based architecture requires proportionally more computation to maintain performance at tighter thresholds. The Federated TGCN-A2C maintains stable 40–44% utilisation across all ATES values, representing a 36.5–38.2% absolute reduction attributable to the efficient GCN architecture, the precomputed shared edge index that avoids redun-dant graph construction, and the EMA-weighted aggregation that avoids unnecessary additional training rounds. 

6. Cyber Resilience Analysis 

Beyond classification accuracy, the practical value of a security frame-work for clinical environments hinges on several factors: maintain operational continuity under active attack, recovering rapidly from incidents, enforcing privacy guarantees that satisfy regulatory requirements, and operating sus-tainably within the resource envelope of edge computing hardware. In this section, we analyse the Federated TGCN-A2C framework along each of these dimensions. 35 Figure 5: Cyber resilience analysis of the proposed Federated TGCN-A2C framework, including resilience KPIs, adaptive degradation strategy, recovery timeline, system avail-ability, component-wise performance, and false positive rate convergence. 

Figure 5 depicts the multi-faceted cyber resilience strategy of the Feder-ated TGCN-A2C framework. The figure showcases the framework’s ability to maintain IoMT service integrity under adversarial conditions. The frame-work achieves high-performance stability across five key dimensions. The key dimensions are detection, latency, privacy, continuity, and recovery—while maintaining a sub-10-second recovery timeline (MTTRec of 6.2s) to meet strict medical RTO requirements. At the center of this resilience lies the Graduated Degradation Strategy, which dynamically reallocates system re-sources through four threat levels. This ensures that even during a critical incident (Level 3), 90 

6.1. Operational Continuity and Graduated Degradation 

A fundamental requirement in healthcare security is straightforward: de-fense mechanisms must never compromise the primary clinical mission. To 36 address this, the Federated TGCN-A2C framework implements a four-level graduated degradation strategy, that explicitly models the trade-off between security responsiveness and medical service availability. Let’s walk through the four levels: At Level 0 (normal operation),Here, 70% of edge computational resources are allocated to medical data process-ing, with the remaining 30% allocated to security monitoring. Temporal GCN performs window-by-window classification at sub-50 ms latency. At 

Level 1 (elevated threat) is triggered when the Digital Twin anomaly scores exceed 0.5 for one or more devices. Once triggered, resources split 50%/50%, and the monitoring frequency of all devices doubles, and non-critical sched-uled tasks are deferred. At Level 2 (active defense). This level activates when the A2C agent issues ISOLATE or HONEYPOT_REDIRECT actions at above-baseline rates. Resources then shift to 30% medical / 70% security, while non-essential services are suspended. At Level 3 (critical incident). Reserved for confirmed multi-device coordinated attacks, this level devotes 90% of resources to containment. Only life-critical functions, pacemaker telemetry, infusion pump control, ventilator monitoring, are preserved at full fidelity. Across any transition, the maximum service degradation is bounded at 10%, ensuring that the clinical workflows remain functional even at the highest threat level. 

6.2. Recovery Performance 

Through simulation with the trained models, we confirmed that the frame-work meets several recovery time objectives. Starting with detection: Mean time to Detect (MTTD) occurs when the Digital Twin anomaly threshold is crossed. Once detected, Mean Time to Respond (MTTR) spans from detection to A2C action execution. The inference pipeline operates at sub-millisecond speed. Mean Time to Contain (MTTC) measures the span from detection to successful device quarantine. Finally, Mean Time to Recover (MTTRec) spans from containment to restoration, with restoration occur-ing via an alternate path to the affected device’s communication. We also computed system availability metrics over the simulated evaluation period. Under normal operations, 99.99% availability is achieved, and 99.95% avail-ability is achieved under an active attack. Maximum service degradation stays at fixed at 10%. Recovery success rate is 99.8%, while the mean time between failures (MTBF) is 720 hours. 37 6.3. Multi-Layered Defense Effectiveness 

The layered architecture ensures that if any single component fails to de-tect or respond to an attack, subsequent layers provide backup coverage. The Digital Twin provides a device-behavioural anomaly signal independent of the flow-classification GCN, so novel attacks whose flow statistics fall within the training distribution of normal traffic can still be flagged through recon-struction error. The Temporal GCN’s anomaly gate amplifies attack-class logits when the twin score is high, creating a fusion of two independent ev-idence sources. The A2C agent applies a third layer of context-sensitivity through its seven-dimensional state, considering not only classifier output but also local traffic composition and historical threat level when selecting the response action. The Enhanced Honeypot System provides a fourth layer by converting uncertain HONEYPOT_REDIRECT decisions into learning opportunities. The empirically measured detection and containment metrics for each layer are as follows: Digital Twin anomaly detection provides first-line device-level anomaly flagging with 1.2 ms inference latency; Temporal GCN threat classification achieves 99.48%/99.61% test accuracy at sub-50 ms window-level latency; A2C defense selection achieves effective containment at sub-millisecond decision latency; and the Enhanced Honeypot System achieves 99.2%–100% attack success rates in later training rounds at minimal routing overhead. The combined false positive rate across all layers remains below 1%, ensuring that clinical operations are not disrupted by spurious alerts at a rate that would erode clinician trust in the system. 

6.4. Privacy Preservation Guarantees 

The Federated TGCN-A2C framework provides formal privacy guaran-tees through three complementary mechanisms. Data localisation ensures that raw patient data never leaves the medical device; only pre-computed network flow statistics, which cannot be reverse-mapped to individual patient measurements, are transmitted to the edge gateway, satisfying the data min-imisation principle of GDPR Article 5 and the minimum necessary standard of the HIPAA Privacy Rule. Differential privacy is applied before the model parameter updates are uploaded to the Cloud Layer aggregation server. Our privacy budget uses epsilon = 1.0 alongside a failure probability of the delta = 10 −5. Together these settings provide (epsilon, delta)-differential privacy guarantees [41]. Empirical evaluation confirms that the accuracy of the 38 degradation is caused by differential privacy noise at epsilon = 1.0 is mini-mal, confirming that the strong privacy is achievable without the meaningful sacrifice in accuracy. Secure communication via TLS 1.3 with ECDHE key exchange. A guarantee of perfect forward secrecy across all inter-component traffic is provided by a certificate-based mutual authentication mechanism. 

7. Explainability Analysis 

Deploying machine learning models within a clinical environment de-mands more than just a high level of detection accuracy. An interpretable piece of evidence for each defense decision is also required. Such a require-ment exists to support a regulatory accountability framework as well as a clinician’s trust. This section analyses the Federated TGCN-A2C framework through four complementary explainability methods: SHAP feature attribu-tion, LIME local approximation, Grad-CAM spatial-temporal saliency, and counterfactual explanation. Each method is applied independently to both the CICDDoS 2019 and TON-IoT trained models, providing cross-dataset validation of the interpretability findings. 

7.1. SHAP Feature Attribution  

> (a) CICDDoS 2019 (65 features, 16 attack classes). (b) TON-IoT (16 features, 10 attack classes).

Figure 6: SHAP global feature importance for the Temporal GCN classifier on both bench-mark datasets. Mean absolute SHAP values are computed over the respective test-set win-dows using a KernelSHAP approximation applied to the aggregated server-side Temporal GCN. Features are sorted in descending order of importance. The ranking confirms that packet inter-arrival statistics and byte-rate features carry the highest importance on CICD-DoS 2019, while protocol-level categorical features dominate on TON-IoT, aligning with domain knowledge about the discriminative signatures of DDoS versus IoT behavioural attacks, respectively. 

39 Figure 6 presents SHAP global feature importance computed over the test partitions of both datasets. On CICDDoS 2019 (Figure 6a), the ranking con-firms that packet inter-arrival time statistics and byte-rate features carry the highest mean absolute SHAP values, aligning with domain knowledge that volumetric attacks produce measurable deviations in these features. The sep-aration of high-value and low-value points along the SHAP axis demonstrates that the Temporal GCN has learned directionally consistent feature responses rather than spurious correlations. On TON-IoT (Figure 6b), protocol-level features dominate, reflecting the richer multi-protocol nature of IoT teleme-try where attack types differ fundamentally in their application-layer be-haviour rather than purely in packet-rate statistics. 

7.2. LIME Local Explanation 

> (a) CICDDoS 2019: local explanation for a repre-sentative attack instance.
> (b) TON-IoT: local explanation for a representative attack instance.

Figure 7: LIME local explanations for representative attack instances on both bench-mark datasets. A linear surrogate model is fitted on 5,000 perturbed neighbourhood samples around each selected test window. Positive weights (teal) provide evidence sup-porting the predicted attack class; negative weights (coral) push the decision toward the Benign/Normal class. The explanations confirm that the Temporal GCN simultaneously amplifies attack-discriminative evidence while suppressing benign-class features, producing classification decisions that are grounded in semantically meaningful flow characteristics rather than incidental correlations. 

Figure 7 shows LIME local explanations for representative instances from each dataset. On CICDDoS 2019 (Figure 7a), LIME identifies the dominant positive contributors consistent with the known characteristics of the classi-fied attack type. On TON-IoT (Figure 7b), protocol-level and connection-40 state features dominate the attack classifications, reflecting the application-layer patterns characteristic of IoT behavioural attacks. In both cases, neg-ative contributors correspond to features associated with normal baseline traffic, confirming that the Temporal GCN simultaneously suppresses benign evidence while amplifying attack evidence. 

7.3. Grad-CAM Spatial-Temporal Saliency 

> (a) CICDDoS 2019 (window = 25 timesteps, rep-resentative classes).
> (b) TON-IoT (window = 40 timesteps, representa-tive classes).

Figure 8: Grad-CAM saliency heatmaps computed from gradients of the predicted class score with respect to the GCN node feature representations. Colour encodes gradient activation magnitude: cool blue indicates low saliency; warm orange-red indicates high saliency. Each row corresponds to a traffic class; each column corresponds to a timestep within the sliding window. The distinct temporal activation patterns across attack classes confirm that the GCN correctly localises the discriminative temporal signatures of each attack type rather than responding uniformly to the presence of anomalous traffic. 

Figure 8 presents Grad-CAM saliency maps computed from the gradients of the predicted class score with respect to the GCN node feature represen-tations. The heatmaps reveal attack-class-specific temporal signatures that align with known network attack dynamics. On CICDDoS 2019 (Figure 8a), the distinct activation patterns across attack classes confirm that the Tem-poral GCN attends to temporally localised features rather than responding uniformly to all anomalous traffic. On TON-IoT (Figure 8b), the longer 40-timestep window reveals richer temporal structure, with multi-stage attack progressions such as backdoor and ransomware exhibiting particularly clear multi-phase activation patterns that provide evidence that the GCN encoder captures the sequential development of complex attack behaviours. 41 7.4. Counterfactual Explanation 

> (a) CICDDoS 2019: minimum perturbation to re-classify a representative attack instance as Benign.
> (b) TON-IoT: minimum perturbation to reclassify a representative attack instance as Normal.

Figure 9: Counterfactual explanations identifying the minimum feature perturbations re-quired to flip the Temporal GCN’s classification from the predicted attack class to the Normal/Benign class. Counterfactuals are generated using a growing-spheres search con-strained to the training data manifold. Left card (red): original instance with predicted class and confidence. Right card (green): nearest counterfactual achieving Normal classifi-cation. Bottom bar chart: perturbation magnitude in standardised units ( σ) per changed feature. The small number of features requiring modification and their large perturbation magnitudes confirm that the learned decision boundaries are semantically tight around genuine attack signatures rather than relying on incidental feature correlations. 

Figure 9 presents counterfactual analyses for representative attack in-stances from each dataset. The minimal counterfactuals require modifying only a small number of features on both datasets, confirming that the Tem-poral GCN’s decision boundaries are tight around the semantically meaning-ful feature combinations that define each attack class. On CICDDoS 2019 (Figure 9a), the modified features are primarily volumetric flow statistics, confirming that DDoS classification is driven by traffic-rate signatures. On TON-IoT (Figure 9b), the required perturbations directly identify the defin-ing characteristics of the classified attack type, providing actionable insight for rule-based supplementary detection and for auditing the framework’s false positives and false negatives in clinical settings. 42 8. Conclusion and Future Work 

This paper presented the Federated Temporal GCN with A2C and Dig-ital Twin (Federated TGCN-A2C) framework, a privacy-preserving defense architecture designed for cyber-resilient security in Internet of Things and Internet of Medical Things environments. The framework integrates four tightly coupled components: a PyG-based Temporal GCN using GCNConv layers with global mean pooling and a learned per-class sigmoid anomaly gate driven by the Digital Twin’s reconstruction error; a Federated A2C agent with entropy-regularised actor-critic updates and balanced experience sampling that selects ALLOW, ISOLATE, or HONEYPOT_REDIRECT ac-tions from a seven-dimensional state encoding classifier confidence, anomaly magnitude, and traffic composition; an Enhanced Honeypot System with adaptive capture thresholds converting suspicious traffic into verifiable threat intelligence; and EMA-weighted FedAvg aggregation with cosine-annealed lo-cal learning rates that stabilise global model updates under non-IID client distributions. Evaluation on CICDDoS 2019 (431,371 raw records, 215,674 windows, 65 features, 16 attack classes) produced 99.48% test accuracy and macro-F1 0.9840 after 25 federated rounds, with EMA weights stable in the 0.330– 0.337 range, adaptive honeypot thresholds converging to 0.400 by round 4, and 33,521 verified captures accumulated across training. On the TON-IoT (211,043 raw records, 70,335 windows, 16 features, 10 attack classes includ-ing the severely imbalanced MITM at 0.49% of test set), the framework achieved the 99.61% test accuracy and the macro-F1 0.9912 after the 10 fed-erated rounds, outperforming Fed-Inforce-Fusion by a 0.21 percentage points absolute while covering the three additional attack classes and achieving a 98.08% recall on the MITM class despite its extreme under-representation. Total honeypot captures of 9,206 across 13 TON-IoT training rounds confirm consistent attack intelligence collection with attack success rates reaching 100% for Client 0 from round 4 onward. Explainability analysis confirmed that SHAP and LIME attributions align with domain-known discriminative features, Grad-CAM saliency correctly localises attack-onset time steps, and counterfactual analysis identifies minimal feature perturbations consistent with the known attack mechanisms. Several acknowledged limitations of the framework define the agenda for future work. First, the evaluation relied on curated benchmark datasets rather than live hospital or industrial traffic. In a real deployment, device-43 specific traffic idiosyncrasies, unrecognised protocol variants, and long-tail attack types not represented in these benchmarks would all be encountered. Second, the three-client setup is a minimal federated scenario; scaling to tens or hundreds of geographically dispersed facilities may require hierarchical aggregation or client selection strategies. Third, the late-round oscillations observed on TON-IoT suggest that EMA with α = 0 .4 may be insufficiently aggressive for small datasets with extreme class imbalance; extending the smoothing window or applying FedProx [42] proximal penalties to local GCN updates may be necessary for deployments with more extreme non-IID parti-tioning. Fourth, a multi-seed evaluation repeating experiments with at least three distinct random seeds is recommended to report the mean ± standard deviation on the primary metrics, providing stronger statistical evidence for the observed improvements. Finally, exploring a graph construction from the device communication topology when the raw PCAP data is available could allow the Temporal GCN to exploit both the temporal and the spa-tial network structure simultaneously, potentially improving detection of the distributed, multi-device coordinated attack campaigns. 

References 

[1] C. Alcaraz and J. Lopez, “Digital Twin: A comprehensive survey of security threats,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts. , vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1475-1503, 2022. [2] Q. Qi et al. , “Enabling technologies and tools for digital twin,” J. Manuf. Syst. , vol. 58, pp. 3-21, 2023. [3] L. U. Khan et al. , “Digital Twin of wireless systems: Overview, tax-onomy, challenges, and opportunities,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts. ,vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 1390-1412, 2022. [4] Y. Zhang, Z. Yan, and W. Ding, “Resource-constrained security for IoMT: Challenges and directions,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 6120-6135, 2024. [5] V. Mothukuri et al. , “A survey on security and privacy of federated learning,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst. , vol. 115, pp. 619-640, 2021. 44 [6] X. Li et al. , “Ransomware detection and mitigation for IoMT using deep learning,” IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform. , vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 3821-3831, 2023. [7] M. Nawrocki, T. C. Schmidt, and M. Wählisch, “A survey of honeypot software and data analysis,” ACM Comput. Surv. , vol. 55, no. 10, pp. 1-36, 2023. [8] J. Zhang et al. , “Federated learning for distributed IIoT intrusion de-tection using transfer approaches,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. , vol. 18, no. 12, pp. 8988-8997, 2022. [9] P. Singh et al. , “Federated learning based intrusion detection system for healthcare IoT,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 7254-7264, 2023. [10] B. McMahan et al. , “Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentralized data,” in Proc. AISTATS , vol. 54, pp. 1273-1282, 2017. [11] W. Li et al. , “Federated reinforcement learning for adaptive intrusion response in IoT networks,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manage. , vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1890-1904, 2024. [12] J. Schulman et al. , “Proximal policy optimization algorithms,” 

arXiv:1707.06347 , 2017. [13] C. Huang et al. , “Adaptive honeypot for IoMT: Dynamic deception with reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics Security , vol. 19, pp. 4231-4244, 2024. [14] A. S. Qureshi et al. , “Federated Digital Twin security for smart hospitals: Anomaly detection without data sharing,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng. ,vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 2893-2905, 2023. [15] W. Chen et al. , “Blockchain-enabled digital twin for medical device au-thentication in IoMT,” IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform. , vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 245-256, 2024. [16] T. Li et al. , “Federated optimization in heterogeneous networks,” Proc. Mach. Learn. Syst. , vol. 2, pp. 429-450, 2023. 45 [17] S. P. Karimireddy et al. , “SCAFFOLD: Stochastic controlled averaging for federated learning,” in Proc. ICML , vol. 119, pp. 5132-5143, 2021. [18] T. D. Nguyen et al. , “FLAME: Taming backdoors in federated learning,” in Proc. USENIX Security , pp. 1911-1928, 2022. [19] Y. Mirsky et al. , “Kitsune: An ensemble of autoencoders for online net-work intrusion detection,” in Proc. NDSS , 2018. [20] R. Zhao et al. , “GRU with temporal attention for low-rate DDoS detec-tion in SDN environments,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics Security , vol. 18, pp. 3071-3083, 2023. [21] I. Ullah and Q. H. Mahmoud, “A two-level flow-based anomaly detection system for IoT networks using a Siamese neural network,” IEEE Access ,vol. 12, pp. 18221-18234, 2024. [22] T. N. Nguyen, Q. D. Ngo, and H. T. Nguyen, “Graph Neural Network for IoT intrusion detection: A survey,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 3664-3680, 2023. [23] Z. A. Genç, G. Lenzini, and S. E. J. Ryan, “Smart honeypots for IoT: A fuzzy logic approach to adaptive deception,” in Proc. ARES , 2022, pp. 1-10. [24] R. Kumar, S. S. Gill, and R. Buyya, “AI-powered adaptive honeypots for IoT security: A reinforcement learning approach,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst. , vol. 138, pp. 131-145, 2023. [25] K. K. Nguyen and V. J. Reddi, “Deep reinforcement learning for cyber security: A survey,” ACM Comput. Surv. , vol. 54, no. 1, pp. 1-36, 2021. [26] Y. Zhou et al. , “DeepFort: Reinforcement learning based DDoS miti-gation for IoT networks,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manage. , vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 1234-1247, 2023. [27] M. M. Salim et al. , “A blockchain-enabled secure digital twin framework for early botnet detection in IIoT environment,” Sensors , vol. 22, no. 16, p. 5985, 2022. 46 [28] I. A. Khan et al. , “Fed-Inforce-Fusion: A federated reinforcement-based fusion model for security and privacy protection of IoMT networks against cyber-attacks,” Inf. Fusion , vol. 90, pp. 438-452, 2023. [29] I. Sharafaldin et al. , “Developing realistic distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack dataset and taxonomy,” in Proc. ICCST , 2019, pp. 1-8. [30] A. Alsaedi et al. , “TON_IoT Telemetry Dataset: A new generation dataset of IoT and IIoT for data-driven intrusion detection systems,” 

IEEE Access , vol. 8, pp. 165130-165150, 2020. [31] S. I. Popoola et al. , “Federated deep learning for zero-day botnet attack detection in IoT-Edge devices,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 3930-3944, 2022. [32] F. Naeem, M. Ali, and G. Kaddoum, “Federated-learning-empowered semi-supervised active learning framework for intrusion detection in ZSM,” IEEE Commun. Mag. , vol. 61, no. 2, pp. 88-94, 2023. [33] J. Li et al. , “An efficient federated learning system for network intrusion detection,” IEEE Syst. J. , vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 4819-4829, 2023. [34] Y. Chen et al. , “FedHealth: A federated transfer learning framework for wearable healthcare,” IEEE Intell. Syst. , vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 83-93, 2020. [35] B. Li et al. , “DeepFed: Federated deep learning for intrusion detection in industrial cyber-physical systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. , vol. 17, no. 8, pp. 5615-5624, 2021. [36] W. Schneble and G. Thamilarasu, “Attack detection using federated learning in medical cyber-physical systems,” in Proc. ICCCN , 2019, pp. 1-8. [37] T. D. Nguyen et al. , “Dìot: A federated self-learning anomaly detection system for IoT,” in Proc. IEEE ICDCS , 2019, pp. 756-767. [38] M. N. Hossen et al. , “Federated machine learning for detection of skin diseases and enhancement of internet of medical things (IoMT) security,” 

IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform. , vol. 26, no. 10, pp. 4982-4991, 2022. 47 [39] Y. Xu et al. , “Feature data processing: Making medical data fit deep neural networks,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst. , vol. 109, pp. 149-157, 2020. [40] J. Fan et al. , “Federated learning driven secure internet of medical things,” IEEE Wireless Commun. , vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 68-75, 2022. [41] C. Dwork and A. Roth, “The algorithmic foundations of differential pri-vacy,” Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci. , vol. 9, no. 3-4, pp. 211-407, 2014. [42] T. Li et al. , “Federated optimization in heterogeneous networks,” in Proc. MLSys , vol. 2, pp. 429-450, 2020. [43] S. M. Lundberg and S.-I. Lee, “A unified approach to interpreting model predictions,” in Proc. NeurIPS , vol. 30, pp. 4765-4774, 2017. [44] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, “ ‘Why should I trust you?’: Explaining the predictions of any classifier,” in Proc. KDD , pp. 1135-1144, 2016. [45] R. R. Selvaraju et al. , “Grad-CAM: Visual explanations from deep net-works via gradient-based localization,” Int. J. Comput. Vis. , vol. 128, no. 2, pp. 336-359, 2020. [46] S. Wachter, B. Mittelstadt, and C. Russell, “Counterfactual explanations without opening the black box: Automated decisions and the GDPR,” 

Harvard J. Law Technology , vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 841-887, 2018. 48