Title: EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.08659v1

Published Time: Fri, 10 Jul 2026 01:08:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 21

Markdown Content:
# EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy 

# Wenxiu Ding ∗

State Key Laboratory of Integrated Services Networks, School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

# Muzhi Liu 

State Key Laboratory of Integrated Services Networks, School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

# Zheng Yan 

State Key Laboratory of Integrated Services Networks, School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

# Mingjun Wang 

School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

# Yifan Zhao 

School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

# Qiao Liu 

School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University Xi’an, Shaanxi, China 

## Abstract 

Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have shown considerable success in learning from graph-structured data. However, their application in privacy-sensitive areas remains difficult as the structural infor-mation of graphs is prone to leaking sensitive link information. To satisfy edge-level differential privacy, a common approach is to directly inject noise into all elements of the graph’s adjacency matrix, thereby obfuscating the existence of any single edge. While increased noise strengthens privacy protection, excessive noise reduces utility. Privacy-utility balance becomes a major barrier to practical privacy-preserving graph learning. To address this issue, we propose EdgeRefine, a new local differ-ential privacy framework that rethinks the privacy-utility trade-off in graph learning through adaptive edge refinement. EdgeRefine first estimates edge-existence probabilities using Jaccard similarity and ranks edges accordingly for noisy edge removal. To ensure the sparsity and reliability of the final graph, we leverage the privacy budget 𝜖 to determine the ratio of true to false edges, sample them separately based on the previously obtained probability ranking, and then control the total number of edges with a separate sam-pling rate 𝑘 . We conducted extensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of EdgeRefine, which achieves accuracy comparable to the noise-free baseline and performs much better than other privacy-preserving methods on various datasets and GNN architec-tures. Under privacy budget 𝜖 = 2.5, EdgeRefine achieves significant node classification accuracy improvements over state-of-the-art baselines: 17.8% on ACM under GAT and 19.7% on Cora under GCN. In graph classification task, an average accuracy degradation of around 5% has also been achieved compared to noise-free baseline. Under graph reconstruction attacks, EdgeRefine maintains relative absolute error levels consistently above 1 across all privacy budgets (averaging 1.962 on Cora and 1.472 on AMAP), indicating strong resilience against privacy leakage. 

## CCS Concepts 

• Security and privacy ; • Computing methodologies → Ma-chine learning ; • Theory of computation → Graph algorithms analysis ;

> ∗Correspondence to wxding@xidian.edu.cn

## Keywords 

Graph Neural Networks, Differential Privacy 

## 1 Introduction 

Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) [ 7] are powerful methods for learn-ing from graph-structured data [ 39 ]. They have shown great success in many areas, such as social network analysis [ 42 ], recommen-dation systems [ 8], and bioinformatics [ 33 ]. GNNs use message-passing mechanisms. By iteratively aggregating information from neighboring nodes, GNNs capture complex patterns and learn rep-resentations directly from graph structures. This very capability, while driving their rapid adoption in privacy-sensitive domains like social networks, also introduces significant privacy risks [12]. Differential Privacy (DP) [ 9] enables the injection of noise into the original raw data, which provides a potential approach to graph data analysis with strong privacy enhancement. Common DP meth-ods include the Laplace mechanism for continuous data [ 9] and the randomized response for binary data [ 10 ]. These mechanisms used in graph learning can ensure that sensitive connections are not leaked. The application of DP thereby establishes a foundation for practical privacy-preserving graph analysis in various privacy-sensitive scenarios. Despite these advances, current differentially private graph learn-ing methods face fundamental limitations in balancing privacy and utility, as detailed in Table 1. They suffer from a number of problems, as described below: (i) Existing approach fails to identify enough trustworthy edges in the noise graph adjacency matrix. Trustworthy edges are defined as those candidate edges that rank highest in terms of computed existence probability in the noisy graph after perturbation and similarity assessment. Identifying these edges from noisy images can better support downstream tasks, but existing work [ 22 , 28 , 46 ]sacrifices some privacy to ensure better recognition. This makes it impossible for them to strictly guarantee differential privacy. Meanwhile, differentially private graph publication schemes [ 44 , 45 ,47 ] preserve high-confidence edges based on structural similarity. These methods ensure a low privacy budget, partially achieve a balance between privacy and utility, but have not yet been tested on downstream tasks such as node classification. This problem affects the practical implementation of privacy-preserving graph learning systems. arXiv:2607.08659v1 [cs.LG] 9 Jul 2026 Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

Table 1: Comparison of Privacy-Preserving Graph Learning Methods Method Pri-PGD[46] PrivGraph[44] LDPGen[32] LapGraph[38] Solitude[25] Blink[50] EdgeRefine 

Differential Privacy Sparsity Preservation Downstream Task Support Utility-Privacy Balance   

> : Fully satisfied; : Partially satisfied; : Not satisfied or not involved.

(ii) The method of denoising through probability estimation does not have a good strategy for filtering noisy edges. Although it is theoretically possible to restore the true existence of edges based on probability, the probability values estimated based on noisy data inevitably deviate, making it difficult to convert the probability matrix into a deterministic graph structure. Despite aiming to preserve the number of original edges, the sampling strategy in [ 41 ] often fails to achieve a faithful reconstruction of the overall graph structure. This is because its sampling setting is based on the assumption that probability estimation is very accurate and that estimation based on noisy data inevitably results in errors. Blink [ 50 ] considers edges with estimated probabilities greater than a threshold as existing. However, this strategy may result in too many false edges being retained, as the overall probability of existence may be overestimated. This also degrades classification performance under certain privacy budgets, breaking the balance between privacy and utility. (iii) The noise introduced by existing methods affects the struc-tural rationality of the graph. Noise added for privacy damages graph sparsity which reduces the accuracy in downstream tasks. To solve this issue, Solitude framework [ 25 ] adds norm constraints to control the graph sparsity, however, it ignores the original prop-erties of the graph. As a result, it performs poorly under low pri-vacy budgets. To mitigate the structural distortion caused by noise, DPRR [ 17 ] perturbs the degree sequence with noise and then recon-structs it, whereas LAPGRAPH [ 38 ] retains the top-k noisy edges. However, these approaches still do not preserve graph sparsity well, because this still introduces considerable noise, making the graph denser. Therefore, they are unable to maintain usable performance under low privacy budgets. Given these problems, we need a graph learning framework that not only provides strong privacy protection but also maintains prac-tical value for real applications. The main challenge is to maintain the utility of GNNs without breaking strict privacy guarantees. 

Technical Challenges: However, solving these problems faces several key difficulties: 

TC1 : Estimating edge existence probabilities accurately is diffi-cult due to the substantial noise required by a low privacy budget. Differential privacy requires adding noise based on global sensitiv-ity. This creates a basic conflict between privacy and accuracy. For graph data, high sensitivity means that we need to add more noise. This makes it hard to obtain correct probability values. Common estimation methods often do not work well in this situation. 

TC2 : The strategy of converting probability into a determinis-tic structure is difficult to choose. Sampling method must ensure the use of trustworthy edges and also consider fault tolerance for errors caused by probability estimation. Common approach [ 50 ]often produces graphs that are not accurate. Mistakes in estimation combined with random sampling cause graphs to be different each time. This leads to unstable performance in important tasks like node classification. 

TC3 : Keeping graphs sparse while satisfying privacy require-ments is challenging. The accuracy of graph learning tasks, such as node classification in noisy graphs, is affected by sparsity. Be-cause real-world networks are usually sparse, privacy protection requirements can lead to a large amount of noise being added. This mismatch causes too many artificial edges to be added. The graph becomes denser than it should be, which affects both the computa-tional efficiency and the actual meaning of the graph structure. 

Our Proposal. We propose the EdgeRefine framework to de-noise the adjacency matrix of noisy graphs and obtain optimized graphs. The client side adds noise to the graph adjacency matrix using strict differential privacy standards, while the server side obtains an optimized graph through a two-stage denoising process for downstream tasks such as node classification. In the first stage, edge existence probabilities are estimated via Jaccard similarity computation and quantile-based binning, which groups edges with similar structural patterns to improve probability calibration under differential privacy constraints. The second stage determines the optimal ratio of selected real edges to noisy fake edges using the privacy budget 𝜖 and controls graph sparsity by applying a global sampling rate 𝑘 . We utilize the privacy budget to calculate the theo-retical true edge ratio 𝜌 = 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ) , thereby enabling us to filter out true edges and recover erroneously deleted edges respectively. The sampling rate 𝑘 limits the total number of selected edges to 

𝐾 = ⌊𝑘 × 𝐸 ⌋, where 𝐸 is the original edge count, the lower sampling ratio ensures fault tolerance for probability estimation bias. This integrated approach addresses three key technical challenges: TC1 

is addressed through variance-reduced probability estimation that leverages local graph topology; TC2 is tackled by deterministically balancing real and fake edge selection based on the estimated proba-bilities; and TC3 is resolved by explicitly constraining the sampling rate to preserve graph sparsity while providing formal differential privacy guarantees. 

Evaluation. Extensive experimental evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed EdgeRefine framework across multiple benchmark datasets, GNN architectures, and privacy set-tings. We conducted comprehensive node classification experiments on four real-world graph datasets (ACM, DBLP, AMAP, and Cora) using three representative GNN architectures (GAT, GCN, and GIN) under varying privacy budgets. The results show that EdgeRefine EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

maintains accuracy levels closely approaching the noise-free base-line while providing formal privacy guarantees. Notably, EdgeRe-fine exhibits exceptional stability with significantly lower variance (𝜎 2 = 0.0001–0.0530) and coefficient of variation (CV = 0.01–0.36) in node classification accuracy compared to competing approaches. Parameter analysis reveals an optimal sampling rate that balances edge credibility and graph connectivity, achieving peak perfor-mance at intermediate sampling values. Ablation studies confirm the critical importance of each component in our framework. In terms of node classification accuracy, the complete system out-performs the ablated version by an average of 124.6% across all experimental conditions. Consistently, EdgeRefine also achieves stable performance on graph classification tasks. Beyond the afore-mentioned evaluations, we conducted additional adversarial attack experiments, further demonstrating its strong privacy-preserving capability. These comprehensive experiments validate EdgeRefine’s ability to effectively address the fundamental challenges in privacy-preserving graph learning. 

Contribution. The main contributions of this work are summa-rized as follows: 

• We develop a novel framework, EdgeRefine, that maintains analytical utility while providing strong privacy guarantees through deterministic edge refinement. This framework ef-fectively balances privacy constraints and practical applica-tion needs in graph neural networks. 

• We propose an edge existence probability estimation method based on Jaccard similarity and histogram binning. This method accurately estimates edge probabilities from noisy graph data. 

• We design a sampling approach with precise rate control that eliminates selection variance. The method maintains optimal privacy-utility trade-offs through parameterized sampling rates. 

• We provide rigorous theoretical analysis to demonstrate that EdgeRefine is computationally efficient while meeting strict privacy requirements, accompanied by extensive ex-periments on real-world graph datasets. The experimental results show that EdgeRefine achieves superior performance over state-of-the-art baselines in terms of accuracy, confirm-ing its practical effectiveness. 

## 2 Related Work 

Existing research on graph differential privacy has primarily ad-vanced along two lines: one focused on applying formal privacy models to the graph data for analysis, and the other on developing privacy-protecting techniques within GNNs. 

## 2.1 Edge-Level Differential Privacy 

Edge-level differential privacy [ 16 ] is a specific privacy model de-signed for graph data, which focuses on protecting the existence of any single edge in the graph. It ensures that an adversary cannot reliably infer whether a particular connection between two nodes exists, even with access to the rest of the graph and auxiliary infor-mation. Research in this domain primarily focuses on developing mechanisms that enable the release of useful graph data or support training models on graph data while offering formal guarantees against edge inference attacks [ 29 ]. However, the relationships be-tween entities (edges) are interdependent, and modifying one edge can affect the connectivity of neighboring nodes [23, 48]. Several methods have been proposed to achieve edge-level DP. For instance, PrivGraph [ 44 ] leverages the community structure of graphs: it first partitions nodes into communities in a differentially-private manner and then reconstructs edges based on noisy counts of intra-community and inter-community connections, aiming to preserve global graph statistics. However, its utility has been pri-marily evaluated on retaining global graph statistics rather than on the performance of downstream graph learning tasks like node classification with GNNs. Another approach, LAPGRAPH [ 38 ], per-turbs the adjacency matrix directly using the Laplace mechanism and then applies sparsification to retain a subset of noisy edges for GNN training. While effective against certain attacks, its utility can be limited. Other frameworks like LDPGen [ 32 ], which oper-ates under the local differential privacy model for decentralized graph generation, and DPRR [ 17 ], which combines randomized response with graph degree preservation, further explore the trade-offs between privacy and utility in graph data release. A common challenge among these methods is preserving sufficient data utility for complex machine learning tasks, particularly those involving GNNs. 

## 2.2 Privacy-Preserving Graph Neural Networks 

GNNs [ 7 ] have emerged as a powerful class of deep learning mod-els specifically designed to process graph-structured data [ 39 ]. The foundational principle underlying most GNNs is the message-passing mechanism, an iterative process where each node updates its representation by aggregating features from its neighboring nodes. This allows GNNs to capture complex relational patterns and dependencies inherent in graph data, making them highly suitable for applications with linked relationships, such as rec-ommendation systems [ 4, 21 , 37 ], biomedicine [ 20 , 26 , 49 ], and social networks [ 3 , 13 , 43 ]. Among the influential GNN variants are Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) [ 19 ], which performs normal-ized aggregation of neighbor features; Graph Attention Network (GAT) [ 35 ], which uses attention mechanisms to weight neigh-bor contributions dynamically; and Graph Isomorphism Network (GIN) [ 40 ], which offers high expressive power for distinguishing graph structures. Despite their successes, standard GNNs typically require access to the raw graph data for training, which poses significant privacy risks. To address these risks, various methods [ 25 , 41 , 50 ] have been developed to train GNNs under privacy constraints. These methods can be broadly categorized into those that provide formal privacy guarantees and those that employ heuristic or non-formal privacy techniques. A notable line of work integrates differential privacy directly into the GNN training pipeline. For example, Solitude [ 25 ]implements a local differential privacy framework where clients perturb their local adjacency lists and feature vectors using random-ized response before sharing them with a server; the server then applies sparsity-based denoising. While providing strong privacy guarantees, its reliance on sparsity assumptions may introduce structural biases. GraphPub [ 41 ] utilizes a reverse learning process with projected gradient descent and encoder-decoder mechanisms Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

to perturb edges while aiming to maintain graph topology, though its effectiveness is sensitive to parameter selection. Among meth-ods with formal guarantees, Blink [ 50 ] represents a state-of-the-art approach that uses Bayesian estimation with separated privacy budgets for adjacency lists and degree sequences, achieving high usability but requiring additional privacy budget for degree infor-mation. Conversely, some methods prioritize utility but lack formal pri-vacy proofs. Pri-PGD [ 46 ], for instance, employs graph forgery through transformations of the graph Laplacian matrix to preserve useful structural information like the convolutional basis spaces and first-order neighborhoods while adding controlled noise. It maintains high model utility with minimal accuracy loss but does not provide a formal differential privacy guarantee. As summarized in Table 1, existing methods face significant challenges in achieving a balanced performance across all criti-cal criteria, including formal privacy strength, utility preservation on downstream tasks, balance between privacy and utility, and adaptability to graph sparsity. No existing work demonstrates sat-isfactory performance across all these dimensions simultaneously, highlighting the need for approaches that can better reconcile the inherent tensions between privacy protection and model utility in graph learning. 

## 3 Preliminaries 3.1 Edge Level Differential Privacy 

Edge-level differential privacy [ 16 ] provides a formal mathematical framework for protecting the existence of individual edges in graph-structured data. Two graphs 𝐺 and 𝐺 ′ are considered adjacent if they differ in exactly one edge presence. A randomized mechanism 

M satisfies 𝜖 -edge differential privacy if for all adjacent graphs 

𝐺 and 𝐺 ′, and for any possible output set 𝑆 ⊆ Range (M) , the following inequality holds: 

Pr [M ( 𝐺 ) ∈ 𝑆 ] ≤ 𝑒 𝜖 · Pr [M ( 𝐺 ′) ∈ 𝑆 ] (1) This definition ensures that the presence or absence of any single edge has limited impact on the output distribution of the mecha-nism, thereby protecting edge existence from inference attacks. The privacy parameter 𝜖 controls the level of protection, with smaller values providing stronger privacy guarantees at the potential cost of reduced data utility. Differential privacy mechanism ensures that an adversary cannot confidently determine whether any specific edge exists in the origi-nal graph based on its output. This protection extends to all edges simultaneously, providing comprehensive privacy coverage for the entire graph structure. The parameter 𝜖 quantitatively bounds the privacy loss, as defined by: 

L = max  

> 𝑆

ln Pr [M ( 𝐺 ) ∈ 𝑆 ]

Pr [M ( 𝐺 ′) ∈ 𝑆 ] ≤ 𝜖 (2) where the maximum is taken over all subsets 𝑆 ⊆ Range (M) .This formal guarantee ensures that the maximum information leakage about any individual edge remains controlled within the specified privacy budget, enabling rigorous privacy protection while maintaining the feasibility of meaningful graph analysis tasks. 

## 3.2 Jaccard Similarity Coefficient 

The Jaccard similarity coefficient [ 18 ], originally introduced by Paul Jaccard, is a fundamental statistical measure for comparing the similarity and diversity of sample sets. In its most general form, for two finite sets 𝐴 and 𝐵 , the Jaccard coefficient is defined as the size of their intersection divided by the size of their union: 

𝐽 (𝐴, 𝐵 ) = |𝐴 ∩ 𝐵 ||𝐴 ∪ 𝐵 | (3) This measure produces values in the range [0, 1], where 𝐽 (𝐴, 𝐵 ) =

0 indicates completely disjoint sets and 𝐽 (𝐴, 𝐵 ) = 1 signifies identi-cal sets. In graph data analysis, the Jaccard coefficient is adapted to mea-sure structural similarity between nodes by considering their neigh-borhood sets. For any two nodes 𝑖 and 𝑗 in a graph 𝐺 = (𝑉 , 𝐸 ), the Jaccard coefficient is defined as: 

𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) = |𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∩ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )| |𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∪ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )| (4) where 𝑁 (𝑖 ) and 𝑁 ( 𝑗 ) represent the neighborhood sets of nodes 

𝑖 and 𝑗 respectively. This adaptation leverages the original set-theoretic foundation of the Jaccard coefficient to capture meaningful topological relationships in graph structures, making it particularly valuable for tasks requiring structural similarity assessment. It is worth mentioning that the Jaccard coefficient has been used in previous work [ 24 ] for link prediction, demonstrating its precise capture of graph structure information. However, that work does not consider GNN training or noisy scenarios, which is different from the setting of our scheme. 

## 4 Problem Statement 

Our goal is to prevent the disclosure of any individual edge in a client’s graph while maintaining high node classification accuracy when utilizing a server’s resources for GNN training. However, directly sharing the graph adjacency matrix 𝐴 exposes sensitive edge information to inference attacks by the server. Achieving this privacy-utility balance poses a significant challenge. A straightforward solution is for the client to perturb the ad-jacency matrix 𝐴 locally using randomized response, generating a noisy version ˜𝐴 that satisfies 𝜖 -edge differential privacy before sharing it. While this formal privacy guarantee prevents the server from inferring the existence of any specific edge, the introduced noise often severely distorts the graph’s topological structure. Since GNNs heavily rely on the graph structure for message passing and feature aggregation, training on such a perturbed graph ˜𝐴 typically leads to significant degradation in node classification accuracy. We must rigorously minimize this performance degradation. Therefore, the critical problem is to develop a framework that allows the client to share a privacy-preserving graph ˜𝐴 , while en-abling the server to reconstruct a denoised adjacency matrix ˆ𝐴 ,as shown in Figure 1. This reconstructed graph ˆ𝐴 must preserve the essential structural characteristics necessary for effective GNN training, ensuring high performance in downstream tasks without violating the end-to-end 𝜖 -edge differential privacy guarantee. EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Client      

> Denoised Graph 𝐀
> }1,0{NN
> A
> 
> Server
> privacy budget 𝐀
> Downstream Task
> Noisy Graph 𝐀

Figure 1: System Model 

## 5 EdgeRefine 

To achieve an optimal balance between privacy and utility in edge-level differentially private graph training, we propose EdgeRefine . The core innovation involves the server estimating edge existence probabilities in the true graph by computing Jaccard similarity coefficients from the noisy data, followed by an intelligent sampling strategy that selectively retains trustworthy edges. The subsequent sections provide comprehensive technical details of EdgeRefine. We have also provided additional theoretical analysis of EdgeRefine in Appendix A. 

## 5.1 Client-Server Pipeline 

EdgeRefine employs a client-server architecture to execute 𝜖 -edge differential privacy. The overall process of EdgeRefine is shown in Figure 2. In this framework, the client, as the sole owner of the sensitive graph with adjacency matrix 𝐴 and features 𝑋 , perturbs 𝐴 

locally to produce ˜𝐴 satisfying 𝜖 -edge DP. The server then refines 

˜𝐴 into a denoised graph ˆ𝐴 suitable for downstream tasks. Specifically, the end-to-end workflow is formalized in Algo-rithm 1. The client computes the flipping probabilities 𝑝 and 𝑞 

based on the privacy budget 𝜖 to perform randomized response. It then applies this mechanism independently to each undirected edge (by processing the upper triangle of 𝐴 and mirroring the re-sult) to generate a symmetric perturbed adjacency matrix ˜𝐴 , which is subsequently transmitted to the server. The server’s denoising consists of two stages. First, it estimates edge existence proba-bilities 𝐿 by computing Jaccard similarities from ˜𝐴 and calibrat-ing them via histogram binning. Second, it performs determin-istic optimal sampling. Given a sampling rate 𝑘 , the target edge count is 𝐾 = ⌊𝑘 · 𝐸 ⌋ (where 𝐸 is the original edge count). Using 

𝜌 = 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ), it selects the top 𝐾 real = ⌊𝜌𝐾 ⌋ edges from the real candidate set Ereal = {( 𝑖, 𝑗 ) : ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1} (edges present after perturba-tion) and the top 𝐾 fake = 𝐾 − 𝐾 real edges from the fake candidate set 

Efake = {( 𝑖, 𝑗 ) : ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 0} (non-edges or removed edges), with both sets sorted by the estimated probability 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 . The union of selected edges forms the final, symmetric matrix ˆ𝐴 .

## 5.2 Client-side Privacy Assurance 

The client-side perturbation process enforces 𝜖 -edge differential privacy on the original symmetric adjacency matrix 𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑁 ×𝑁 .The client computes the flipping probabilities for the randomized response mechanism as 𝑝 = 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ) and 𝑞 = 1/( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ), where 

𝑝 is the probability of retaining a true edge ( 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1) and 𝑞 is the probability of flipping a non-edge ( 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 0) into a fake edge. To characterize the expected fidelity of the perturbed graph, we define the expected ratio 𝑑 of real to fake edges in the output ˜𝐴 .

Algorithm 1 Client-Server Pipeline 

Require: 𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑛 ×𝑛 , 𝜖 > 0, 𝑘 

Ensure: ˆ𝐴  

> 1:

Client Side:  

> 2:

Generate ˜𝐴 ← EdgeRandomization (𝐴, 𝜖 ) ⊲ Algorithm 2  

> 3:

Send ˜𝐴 to server.  

> 4:

Server Side:  

> 5:

Compute Jaccard matrix 𝐽 from ˜𝐴 . 

> 6:

Calibrate 𝐽 to get probability matrix 𝐿 ⊲ Algorithm 3  

> 7:

𝐾 ← ⌊ 𝑘 · ( 12

Í 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 )⌋ , 𝜌 ← 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ) 

> 8:

Partition candidates: Ereal = {( 𝑖, 𝑗 ) : ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1}, Efake = {( 𝑖, 𝑗 ) :˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 0} ⊲ Algorithm 4  

> 9:

Sort Ereal , Efake by 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 descending.  

> 10:

Select top ⌊𝜌𝐾 ⌋ from Ereal and top 𝐾 − ⌊ 𝜌𝐾 ⌋ from Efake . 

> 11:

Build symmetric matrix ˆ𝐴 from selected edges.  

> 12:

return ˆ𝐴 

Let Λ = 12

Í𝑖,𝑗 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 denote the count of true edges in the original graph, and 𝑀 = 𝑁 (𝑁 − 1)/ 2 − Λ denote the number of possible non-edges. The expected number of preserved real edges is 𝑝 Λ, and the expected number of introduced fake edges is 𝑞𝑀 . Thus, the expected ratio is: 

𝑑 = 𝑝 Λ

𝑞𝑀 . (5) This ratio 𝑑 is a function of the privacy budget 𝜖 and quantifies the inherent tension between privacy and structural fidelity. The perturbation is executed as detailed in Algorithm 2. The client applies the randomized response once per undirected edge by iterating over the upper triangular part of 𝐴 (lines 4-8). For each node pair (𝑖, 𝑗 ) with 𝑖 < 𝑗 , the entry ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 is sampled: ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 ∼

Bernoulli (𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1 ? 𝑝 : 𝑞 ). Symmetry is enforced by setting ˜𝐴 𝑗𝑖 =

˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 (line 6), ensuring ˜𝐴 represents a valid undirected graph. The resulting matrix ˜𝐴 , which satisfies 𝜖 -edge DP, is then sent to the server. 

Algorithm 2 Edge Randomization 

Require: 𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑁 ×𝑁 , privacy parameter 𝜖 > 0

Ensure: ˜𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 1:

Initialize ˜𝐴 ← 0𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 2:

𝑝 ← 𝑒 𝜖   

> 𝑒 𝜖 +1

, 𝑞 ← 1  

> 𝑒 𝜖 +1
> 3:

for 𝑖 = 1 to 𝑁 do  

> 4:

for 𝑗 = 𝑖 + 1 to 𝑁 do  

> 5:

˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 ∼ Bernoulli (𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1? 𝑝 : 𝑞 ) 

> 6:

˜𝐴 𝑗𝑖 ← ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗  

> 7:

end for  

> 8:

end for  

> 9:

return ˜𝐴 

## 5.3 Server-side Noise Reduction 

Upon receiving the noisy adjacency matrix from the client, the server performs a two-stage denoising operation on it, as shown in Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu Privacy  

> Parameter 𝐀

𝐀 = 𝐀 𝐀 

𝐀 𝐀 + 𝐀 

𝐀 = 𝐀 

𝐀 𝐀 + 𝐀            

> Algorithm 2:
> Edge Randomization
> Phase 1: Jaccard Similarity
> Computation
> 𝐀 𝐀
> Bin 54321
> Phase 2: Quantile-Based
> Binning
> Phase 3: Probability
> Estimation and
> Assignment
> Probability
> Ass ignment 𝐀
> {𝐀 }
> 0.92
> 0.86
> 0.74
> 0.88
> 0.80
> 0.69
> Importance
> Ordering
> Merge
> Algorithm 4: Deterministic Optimal Sampling
> Algorithm 3: Similarity Binning and Probability Calibration
> Denoised Graph 𝐀 Original Graph 𝐀
> Noisy Graph 𝐀
> Noisy Graph 𝐀
> 𝐀 (𝐀 ,𝐀 ) = |𝐀 (𝐀 ) ∩ 𝐀 (𝐀 )|
> |𝐀 (𝐀 ) ∪ 𝐀 (𝐀 )|
> Down stream
> Task Support

Figure 2: Overall Process of EdgeRefine 

Figure 2. In general, the server estimates the probability based on limited noisy information, and then performs deterministic sam-pling on the probability based on the client’s privacy budget and their own preset sampling rate. 

5.3.1 Probability Estimation via Jaccard Similarity and Histogram Binning. For reconstructing the denoised adjacency matrix, the server first utilizes Jaccard similarity coefficients combined with histogram binning for probability estimation. The fundamental ad-vantage of using Jaccard similarity lies in its normalization by the union of neighborhoods, which naturally suppresses the impact of random edge perturbations. Our implementation calculates the Jaccard coefficient for all node pairs to capture topological relation-ships. The probability estimation process, outlined in Algorithm 3, is structured into three sequential phases. The initial phase focuses on the computation of the Jaccard similarity matrix for every distinct node pair (𝑖, 𝑗 ) where 𝑖 < 𝑗 .This involves calculating 𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) = |𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∩ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )|/| 𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∪ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )| ,where 𝑁 (𝑖 ) and 𝑁 ( 𝑗 ) denote the neighborhood sets of nodes 𝑖 

and 𝑗 , respectively. The computation is efficiently performed using optimized set operations, systematically iterating through the upper triangle of the adjacency matrix to avoid redundant calculations. Following the similarity computation, the second phase employs a quantile-based binning strategy on the set of all pairwise Jac-card coefficients, X = {𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) | 𝑖 < 𝑗 }. This strategy partitions the similarity values into 𝐵 bins by determining the bin edges at 

𝐵 + 1 quantiles of the empirical distribution of X. Our quantile-based binning strategy automatically provides higher resolution in densely clustered similarity regions, enhancing discriminative power without manual thresholds or distributional assumptions. This non-parametric binning strategy is robust across diverse graph topologies. The final phase encompasses probability estimation and the assignment of these probabilities to form the symmetric matrix 𝐿 .Within each bin 𝑏 defined in the previous phase, the probability 

𝑃 𝑏 is estimated non-parametrically as the ratio of actually existing edges ( 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1) to the total number of node pairs assigned to that 

Algorithm 3 Similarity Binning and Probability Calibration 

Require:  

> 1:

Adjacency matrix 𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 2:

Number of bins 𝐵 

Ensure:  

> 3:

Probability matrix 𝐿 ∈ [ 0, 1]𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 4:

Phase 1: Jaccard Similarity Computation  

> 5:

for 𝑖 = 1 to 𝑁 do  

> 6:

for 𝑗 = 𝑖 + 1 to 𝑁 do  

> 7:

Compute neighborhood sets 𝑁 (𝑖 ) and 𝑁 ( 𝑗 ) 

> 8:

Calculate 𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) = |𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∩ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )|/| 𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∪ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )|  

> 9:

end for  

> 10:

end for  

> 11:

Phase 2: Quantile-Based Binning  

> 12:

Extract upper triangle elements X = {𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) | 𝑖 < 𝑗 } 

> 13:

Compute bin edges at 𝐵 + 1 quantiles of X 

> 14:

Initialize bin statistics arrays  

> 15:

Phase 3: Probability Estimation and Assignment  

> 16:

for each vertex pair (𝑖, 𝑗 ) in upper triangle do  

> 17:

Assign to bin based on Jaccard value  

> 18:

Accumulate edge indicator in bin statistics  

> 19:

end for  

> 20:

for each bin 𝑏 = 1 to 𝐵 do  

> 21:

Compute 𝑃 𝑏 = sum(edges) /count(pairs)  

> 22:

end for  

> 23:

for each vertex pair (𝑖, 𝑗 ) do  

> 24:

𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 = 𝑃 𝑏 for corresponding bin 𝑏  

> 25:

𝐿 𝑗𝑖 = 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 ⊲ Ensure symmetry  

> 26:

end for  

> 27:

return 𝐿 

bin, 𝑃 𝑏 = sum(edges) /count(pairs) . This empirical frequency serves as the calibrated probability of edge existence for all pairs within the bin. These probabilities are then systematically assigned to each vertex pair, with explicit enforcement of symmetry via 𝐿 𝑗𝑖 = 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 to EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

ensure consistency for the undirected graph, resulting in the final probability matrix 𝐿 that is fed into the subsequent sampling step. 

5.3.2 Deterministic Optimal Sampling with Rate Control. Given the edge-existence probability matrix 𝐿 from Algorithm 3, the server further samples it to obtain a deterministic graph structure. Our de-terministic sampling algorithm (Algorithm 4) ensures precise edge selection and reproducible graph sparsity through two sequential steps. 

Algorithm 4 Deterministic Optimal Sampling 

Require:  

> 1:

Probability matrix 𝐿 ∈ [ 0, 1]𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 2:

Sampling rate 𝑘  

> 3:

Original edge count 𝐸 

Ensure:  

> 4:

Denoised adjacency matrix ˆ𝐴 ∈ { 0, 1}𝑁 ×𝑁  

> 5:

𝐾 ← ⌊ 𝑘 × 𝐸 ⌋ ⊲ Compute target edge count  

> 6:

𝜌 ← 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ) ⊲ Privacy-utility parameter  

> 7:

Candidate Partitioning  

> 8:

Ereal ← {( 𝑖, 𝑗, 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 ) | 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1, 𝑖 < 𝑗 } 

> 9:

Efake ← {( 𝑖, 𝑗, 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 ) | 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 0, 𝑖 < 𝑗 } 

> 10:

Importance Ordering  

> 11:

Sort (E real , key = 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 , order = descending ) 

> 12:

Sort (E fake , key = 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 , order = descending ) 

> 13:

Deterministic Selection  

> 14:

𝐾 real ← ⌊ 𝜌𝐾 ⌋ 

> 15:

𝐾 fake ← 𝐾 − 𝐾 real  

> 16:

ˆ𝐴 ← 0𝑁 ×𝑁 ⊲ Initialize output matrix  

> 17:

Select top 𝐾 real edges from Ereal , store in Sreal  

> 18:

Select top 𝐾 fake edges from Efake , store in Sfake  

> 19:

Edge Insertion and Symmetrization  

> 20:

for (𝑖, 𝑗 ) in Sreal ∪ S fake do  

> 21:

ˆ𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 ← 1, ˆ𝐴 𝑗𝑖 ← 1 ⊲ Insert edge and enforce symmetry  

> 22:

end for  

> 23:

return ˆ𝐴 

The first stage handles initialization, candidate set partition-ing, and sorting. Our algorithm begins by calculating the target number of edges to preserve, 𝐾 = ⌊𝑘 × 𝐸 ⌋, which is controlled by the global sampling rate 𝑘 to explicitly govern the sparsity of the denoised graph. Simultaneously, the privacy-utility trade-off parameter 𝜌 = 𝑒 𝜖 /( 1 + 𝑒 𝜖 ) is derived from the privacy budget 𝜖 . All potential node pairs are then partitioned into two candidate sets based on the observed noisy adjacency matrix ˜𝐴 : the real candi-date set Ereal for observed edges ( ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 1) and the fake candidate set Efake for non-edges ( ˜𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 = 0), with each pair associated with its estimated existence probability 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 from the probability matrix. Both candidate sets are subsequently sorted in descending order of their 𝐿 𝑖 𝑗 values. This deterministic process, termed Importance Or-dering, eliminates any sampling variance and ensures reproducible intermediate results. The second stage performs deterministic selection and merging. The algorithm selects the top 𝐾 real = ⌊𝜌𝐾 ⌋ edges from the sorted real set Ereal and the top 𝐾 fake = 𝐾 − 𝐾 real edges from the sorted fake set Efake . This provides an optimal balance, governed by 𝜌 ,between preserving high-confidence observed edges and carefully recovering potentially missing true edges. Finally, our algorithm initializes a zero matrix, populates it with edges from both candidate sets, and symmetrizes it to obtain the denoised adjacency matrix ˆ𝐴 .The key advantages of this design are guaranteed reproducibility and the complete elimination of sampling variance. The denoised adjacency matrix ˆ𝐴 we have obtained so far can effectively support downstream tasks. Theoretical analysis of secu-rity and utility for denoised matrix will be presented in Appendix A, while the experimental results in Section 6 and Appendix C. 

## 6 Experimental Evaluation 

In this section, we first introduce the experimental settings. Then, we answer the following research questions through extensive ex-periments to demonstrate the superior performance of EdgeRefine. 

• RQ1: Does EdgeRefine outperform existing privacy pre-serving graph learning methods in terms of privacy-utility balance across different GNN architectures (GAT, GCN, GIN) and diverse graph datasets? 

• RQ2: Does EdgeRefine have a significant improvement in sparsity compared to other baselines, and does this improve-ment in sparsity bring computational advantages? 

• RQ3: What is the level of error in probability estimation, and does the overall process depend on the accuracy of prob-ability estimation? 

• RQ4: What is the impact of key parameters, particularly the sampling rate, on EdgeRefine’s performance? 

• RQ5: How do the individual components of EdgeRefine contribute to its overall effectiveness (ablation study)? 

• RQ6: Can EdgeRefine still maintain low performance degra-dation relative to the noise-free baseline in unconventional differential privacy graph learning scenarios? 

• RQ7: When faced with a state-of-the-art graph-reconstruction attack, can EdgeRefine still prevent edge information from being leaked? 

## 6.1 Experimental Settings 

Hardware Settings: The evaluation is performed on a desktop with 11th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-11700 @2.50GHz processor and 32GB of running memory. 

Software Environment: The software ecosystem was built upon the Python programming language. Key libraries utilized for the experiment included NumPy [ 15 ] for foundational numerical com-putations and multi-dimensional array operations, PyTorch [ 30 ] for deep learning model construction and training, and Scikit-learn [ 31 ]for implementing traditional machine learning algorithms and data preprocessing. SciPy [ 36 ] was employed for scientific com-puting and advanced statistical functions. Furthermore, special-ized libraries such as torch_geometric [ 11 ] were used for handling graph-structured data, and networkx [ 14 ] was used for network analysis and manipulation. Unless otherwise specified, the main node-classification accuracy results are averaged over five inde-pendent runs, while all other experiments are averaged over three independent runs. 

GNN Architecture: We used three different GNN architectures (GAT, GCN, and GIN) in the experiments to demonstrate that EdgeRefine is applicable to different message passing processes. Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

We have included the specific process of aggregating neighbor information using these architectures in Appendix B. 

Datasets: We evaluated EdgeRefine on four real-world graph datasets for node classification and one real-world dataset for graph classification. These datasets all originate from real-world associa-tion networks: citation networks (e.g., Cora [ 27 ]) reflect academic inheritance via paper citations; product networks (e.g., AMAP [ 34 ]) capture user-item links through co-purchases; and author/paper col-laborations (e.g., ACM [ 1], DBLP [ 5]) model research partnerships via co-authorship, with features including content-based represen-tations by binary word vectors. MUTAG [ 6] is a dataset containing 188 chemical molecule graphs, with an average of 17.9 nodes and 7 atomic type labels per graph, commonly used for graph classi-fication tasks. Due to the essential differences in data structure and task objectives between multi graph datasets and single graph datasets, Table 2 only summarizes the statistical characteristics of four datasets for node classification. 

Table 2: Statistics of Graph Datasets Dataset Samples Dimension Edges Classes 

ACM[1] 3025 1870 13128 3DBLP[5] 4057 334 3528 4AMAP[34] 7650 745 119081 8Cora[27] 2708 1433 5278 7

Baselines: To demonstrate the performance of EdgeRefine, we implemented the following state-of-the-art and high-performance solutions as baselines for comparison: 

• Blink [ 50 ]: This framework includes three variants: hard, soft, and hybrid. Blink-hard variant applies a threshold to the Bayesian posterior probability matrix, preserving only edges exceeding a predefined cutoff, providing effective noise re-moval under low privacy budgets but potentially discarding genuine edges. The soft approach uses edge probabilities as weights without thresholding, preserving more information but being susceptible to noise. Blink-hybrid strategy com-bines thresholding and weighting, first filtering edges then using their probabilities as weights, offering flexibility but requiring careful parameter tuning. Based on the original data, both hard and hybrid variants demonstrate superior performance under low privacy budgets, making them the preferred choices for comparisons in our experiments. 

• DPRR [ 17 ]: It employs Warner’s Randomized Response on each edge, followed by an edge sampling process with probabilities calibrated using node degrees perturbed by the Laplace mechanism. This method focuses on preserving the degree distribution of the graph after perturbation under edge LDP guarantees. 

• LDPGen [ 32 ]: Operating under the local DP model, users perturb and upload their degree vectors via the Laplace mech-anism. The server then clusters users based on these noisy vectors and generates a synthetic graph using a generative model like BTER, rather than releasing a directly perturbed adjacency matrix. 

• LAPGRAPH [ 38 ]: This approach adds Laplace noise di-rectly to each element of the adjacency matrix. It then con-structs a private, sparse adjacency matrix by selecting the top-T edges with the largest noisy values. The method aims to preserve graph sparsity but may introduce significant noise in large graphs. To establish performance baselines, we also compared EdgeRe-fine against noise-free GNN implementations marked as Origin ,which provides theoretical upper bounds for utility preservation. We also evaluated against standard differentially private edge sam-pling methods to demonstrate the advantages of our denoising approach over simple perturbation techniques. 

Data Preparation and Model Setting: To comprehensively eval-uate the performance of EdgeRefine, we conducted extensive ex-periments under rigorous privacy constraints. 

Data Preparation. For all datasets, we randomly split the nodes into training, validation, and test sets with a ratio of 2:1:1, ensuring balanced distribution across all subsets. This partitioning strategy maintains sufficient training data while providing adequate samples for validation and reliable performance estimation. 

Privacy Setting. The privacy protection mechanism follows a two-stage process: client-side perturbation using randomized response with privacy budget 𝜖 , followed by server-side denoising through Jaccard-based probability estimation and deterministic sampling. We evaluated our approach across a range of privacy budgets 𝜖 ∈{0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5} to systematically analyze the privacy-utility trade-off. 

Model Selection. To ensure robust performance assessment, we employed multiple state-of-the-art graph neural network architec-tures including GCN [ 19 ],GAT [ 35 ], and GIN [ 40 ]. This architectural diversity allows us to evaluate the generalizability of our privacy mechanism across different message-passing paradigms. For each combination of dataset, GNN architecture, and privacy budget, we conducted grid search to identify optimal hyperparameters based on validation performance. For all methods, we used the Adam optimizer with a learning rate of 0.005 and a weight decay of 0.00001. Early stopping was applied with a patience of 100 epochs based on validation accuracy. All experiments were run for at most 700 epochs, with performance evaluated every 50 epochs. For EdgeRefine, the sampling rate was fixed at 𝑘 = 0.01 unless otherwise specified. For Blink, the privacy budget allocated to the degree sequence was fixed at 𝜖 𝑑 = 0.1.

Evaluation Metrics: In downstream tasks, model performance serves as a key indicator of the usability of differentially private data. To evaluate the privacy-utility trade-off of EdgeRefine, we adopt node classification as the benchmark task, measuring model performance across varying privacy budgets with classification accuracy as the primary metric. We assess performance on the test set, reporting mean values over five independent runs to ensure statistical significance. Since the selected privacy budget range (𝜖 ∈ [ 0.5, 3.5]) is relatively low, achieving competitive classification accuracy within this range indicates a favorable privacy-utility balance. Beyond accuracy, we also introduce the following metrics to evaluate the performance of EdgeRefine, including stability, attack resistance, and so on. EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

(1) Stability Assessment: Two statistical measures: variance ( 𝜎 2)and coefficient of variation ( 𝐶𝑉 ) are introduced to evaluate the sta-bility and consistency of different methods under varying privacy constraints. Variance quantifies the dispersion of accuracy values across privacy budgets, with lower values indicating more stable performance. The coefficient of variation, calculated as 𝐶𝑉 = 𝜎 /𝜇 

(where 𝜎 is the standard deviation and 𝜇 is the mean accuracy), provides a normalized measure of variability, facilitating compari-son across methods with different accuracy scales. These stability metrics are crucial for assessing the practical reliability of privacy-preserving methods in real-world scenarios where privacy budgets may fluctuate. In Appendix C.1, we also use std to evaluate stability. 

(2) Privacy-Utility Balance Index (PUBI): Existing evaluations typically focus on absolute accuracy at isolated privacy budgets, which overlooks a critical dimension: whether a method maintains stable utility as privacy requirements are relaxed. A method that excels under stringent privacy (low 𝜖 ) but deteriorates when the budget increases, it fails to achieve a genuine privacy-utility balance. To quantify this property, we define the Privacy-Utility Balance Index (PUBI). Let Acc (𝜖 𝑖 ) denote the node classification accuracy of EdgeRefine at privacy budget 𝜖 𝑖 and Acc ori the accuracy of the noise-free baseline. We first define the Average Utility Retention (AUR): 

AUR = 1

𝑁 

> 𝑁

∑︁ 

> 𝑖 =1

Acc (𝜖 𝑖 )

Acc ori 

, (6) which measures the mean utility preserved across the privacy bud-get spectrum. Second, we define the Monotonic Consistency Factor (MCF): 

MCF = 1 − 1

𝑁 − 1 

> 𝑁 −1

∑︁ 

> 𝑖 =1

max 



0, Acc (𝜖 𝑖 ) − Acc (𝜖 𝑖 +1)

Acc ori 



, (7) which penalizes performance degradation when the privacy budget increases (i.e., privacy protection weakens). The final index of PUBI is their product: 

PUBI = AUR × MCF . (8) PUBI rewards both high overall utility and stable behavior across privacy regimes. A method that suffers systematic decay as 𝜖 in-creases receives a lower score despite strong performance at isolated low budgets. 

(3) Probability Estimation Quality: We also evaluate the proba-bility estimation error using three indicators to demonstrate the effectiveness of probability estimation. The smaller the three er-ror indicators, the more accurate the estimation. We introduce Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Brier score, Expected Calibration Er-ror(ECE)/probability Mean Absolute Deviation (pMAD). The MAE measures the average absolute difference between estimated proba-bilities and actual binary edge indicators. The Brier score quantifies the mean squared error of probability predictions. The ECE assesses the calibration of probability estimates by comparing expected ac-curacy with predicted confidence. The pMAD represents the disper-sion of probability estimates around their mean. The ECE/pMAD ratio indicates how calibration errors relate to inherent variability; a lower ratio implies calibration errors are small relative to the natural spread of estimates. 

(4) Resistance to Reconstruction Attacks: To evaluate privacy pro-tection against inference attacks, we employ the Relative Absolute Error (RAE) metric. RAE quantifies an attacker’s ability to recover original edges from the perturbed graph, with higher RAE values indicating greater reconstruction error and thus stronger resistance. RAE is defined as: RAE =

Í𝑖,𝑗 |𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 − ˆ𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 |

Í𝑖,𝑗 |𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 − ¯𝐴 | , (9) where 𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 is the true adjacency matrix, ˆ𝐴 𝑖 𝑗 is the reconstructed matrix, and ¯𝐴 is the mean of the true adjacency matrix entries. An RAE close to 1 indicates the attack performs no better than guessing the mean, while an RAE > 1 suggests the attack performs worse, demonstrating strong resilience. Thus, higher RAE indicates better privacy protection. 

## 6.2 Experimental Results and Analysis 

6.2.1 Privacy-utility of EdgeRefine ( RQ1 ). To evaluate privacy-utility trade-off of EdgeRefine and current state-of-the-art baselines, we first conducted experiments comparing their performance across different privacy budgets and four distinct datasets. We present the node classification accuracy in Figure 3, the variance and coefficient of variation of mode accuracy in Table 3, and privacy-utility balance index in Table 4. On the ACM and DBLP datasets shown in Figures 3(a) and 3(b), EdgeRefine exhibits exceptional consistency, maintaining accuracy around 0.90–0.91 for GAT, 0.88–0.89 for GCN, and 0.88–0.90 for GIN throughout the privacy budget spectrum. EdgeRefine is generally superior to existing baselines under low privacy budgets and is close to noise-free baseline. It is worth noting that at the lowest privacy budget ( 𝜖 = 0.5), Blink-hard achieves slightly higher accu-racy (around 0.92 for GAT) compared to EdgeRefine (around 0.91 for GAT at 𝜖 = 0.5). However, Blink-hard shows significant per-formance degradation with increasing 𝜖 . When the privacy budget is 2.5, EdgeRefine has improved GAT performance by 17.8% com-pared to Blink on the ACM dataset. The performance degradation in Blink methods is attributed to higher privacy budgets introduc-ing lower noise levels, which causes more edges to be estimated as high-probability edges, consequently leading to the selection of more edges, increased graph density, and ultimately impaired per-formance. Other baseline methods show consistently low accuracy across all experimental conditions. The AMAP dataset evaluation shows that EdgeRefine maintains strong performance with GAT accuracy ranging from 0.88–0.89 and GCN accuracy from 0.67–0.76 across privacy budgets in Fig-ure 3(c). Notably, the GIN architecture exhibits significantly lower performance around 0.25–0.45. Without privacy protection, the GIN baseline accuracy is already low (0.4261), and at higher privacy budgets, the performance abnormally exceeds the Origin baseline. The limited performance of the GIN model on the AMAP dataset reflects an inherent instability of this dataset, corroborated by Ap-pendix C.1, where elevated standard deviations appear across all three architectures. Our controlled experiment in Appendix C.2 further confirms that EdgeRefine at 𝜖 = 3.0 does not differ sig-nificantly from the noise-free baseline ( 𝑝 = 0.226 ); the apparent Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC  EdgeRefine Blink-hard Blink-hybrid DPRR  LAPGRAPH LDPGen Origin GAT 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC GCN 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC GIN (a) ACM 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC (c) AMAP 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC (d) Cora 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC (b) DBLP 

Figure 3: Performance Comparison of EdgeRefine and Baseline Methods 

performance gains at higher privacy budgets are therefore attribut-able to sampling fluctuations within GIN’s broad variance band, not to a reliable regularization effect of DP noise. Overall, EdgeRefine provides more stable performance across different privacy bud-gets and networks, whereas other baseline methods demonstrate inferior performance. On the Cora dataset, as shown in Figure 3(d) EdgeRefine demon-strates consistent performance across privacy budgets, with accu-racy maintaining stable levels around 0.75–0.76 for GAT, 0.72–0.73 for GCN, and 0.66–0.69 for GIN as 𝜖 increases from 0.5 to 3.5. In contrast, Blink-hard exhibits a clear declining trend, while Blink-hybrid shows similar deterioration. The performance deterioration is particularly evident for GCN architecture. When the privacy budget is 2.5, EdgeRefine improves GCN performance by 19.7% compared to Blink on the Cora dataset. Other baseline methods maintain consistently low accuracy below 0.40 across all privacy settings. To show the stability of EdgeRefine, Table 3 summarizes the coefficient of variation (CV) and variance ( 𝜎 2) computed from the updated experimental results. EdgeRefine achieves the lowest vari-ance on ACM ( 𝜎 2 = 0.0001 , CV=0.01) and DBLP ( 𝜎 2 = 0.0001 ,CV=0.01), where its stability markedly exceeds that of all baselines. On Cora ( 𝜎 2 = 0.0012 , CV=0.05), it remains competitive with the most stable alternatives. AMAP stands out as a distinct case: its structural properties amplify variance across all methods (see Ap-pendix C.1), and while DPRR and LDPGen exhibit lower CV, their absolute accuracies remain substantially below EdgeRefine’s. No-tably, Blink-hard and Blink-hybrid show the highest variance on every dataset. Additionally, the standard deviation from five inde-pendent runs per configuration is provided in Appendix C.1. These results confirm that EdgeRefine maintains superior stability with minimal performance fluctuation on the majority of datasets. Furthermore, Table 4 reports PUBI for all six methods across the 12 architecture–dataset combinations. EdgeRefine consistently achieves the highest PUBI across all combinations, with an aver-age of 0.9386. By contrast, Blink-hybrid and Blink-hard average only 0.7101 and 0.6902, respectively, trailing EdgeRefine by 24.3% and 26.4%. The divergence stems from MCF. Blink-hard and Blink-hybrid occasionally outperform EdgeRefine at the strictest privacy levels ( 𝜖 = 0.5); however, their accuracy decays sharply as 𝜖 grows. For example, on GAT-AMAP, Blink-hard plummets from 0.8856 to 0.2739 across the budget range, yielding MCF = 0.8912 , whereas EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

Table 3: Coefficient of Variation (CV) and Variance ( 𝜎 2)

Scheme ACM DBLP AMAP Cora 

CV/ 𝜎 2 CV/ 𝜎 2 CV/ 𝜎 2 CV/ 𝜎 2

EdgeRefine 0.01/0.0001 0.01/0.0001 0.36/0.0530 0.05/0.0012 Blink-hard 0.26/0.0374 0.19/0.0174 0.45/0.0572 0.27/0.0245 Blink-hybrid 0.23/0.0301 0.21/0.0205 0.42/0.0528 0.27/0.0244 DPRR 0.09/0.0009 0.11/0.0012 0.06/0.0002 0.14/0.0011 LAPGRAPH 0.09/0.0022 0.06/0.0010 0.38/0.0149 0.07/0.0005 LDPGen 0.15/0.0048 0.08/0.0014 0.08/0.0004 0.09/0.0008 

Notes: The final result of each method is calculated by taking the average of GAT, GCN, and GIN. 

Table 4: Privacy-Utility Balance Index Across All Architecture–Dataset Combinations                                                                                 

> Arch. Dataset EdgeRefine Blink-hard Blink-hybrid DPRR LAPGRAPH LDPGen GAT ACM 0.9779 0.8118 0.7556 0.4571 0.4839 0.4868 AMAP 0.9289 0.6481 0.7674 0.2864 0.4145 0.2594 Cora 0.8958 0.6860 0.6852 0.3348 0.3785 0.3636 DBLP 0.9711 0.8384 0.8136 0.4183 0.6349 0.5931 GCN ACM 0.9788 0.8161 0.8470 0.3826 0.5802 0.5268 AMAP 0.8362 0.5601 0.6055 0.2778 0.3883 0.2891 Cora 0.8284 0.6560 0.6973 0.3215 0.4127 0.4233 DBLP 0.9911 0.8120 0.8449 0.3744 0.6756 0.6298 GIN ACM 0.9775 0.6258 0.6771 0.3855 0.5206 0.4283 AMAP 1.0921 0.5953 0.5505 0.5910 0.5973 0.5772 Cora 0.7915 0.5476 0.5790 0.2662 0.3753 0.3569 DBLP 0.9945 0.6854 0.6984 0.3493 0.6069 0.5262 Average 0.9386 0.6902 0.7101 0.3704 0.5057 0.4550

EdgeRefine remains stable (0.8582–0.8922) with MCF = 0.9955 . This systemic fragility undermines their overall balance. Notably, on GIN-AMAP, EdgeRefine attains PUBI (1.0921) > 1 because its mea-sured accuracy occasionally exceeds the noise-free baseline. As analyzed in Appendix C.2, this apparent improvement is attribut-able to the high variance of GIN on the AMAP dataset. 

6.2.2 Sparsity Analysis ( RQ2 ). To evaluate the sparsity mainte-nance performance of our framework, we used GAT network to test the graph density and training time of all methods on different privacy budgets on the DBLP dataset. Specifically, Blink-hybrid baseline does not appear in this experiment due to the inability to uniformly test using edge weights as adjacency matrices. Our test results are presented in Tables 5 and 6. The density analysis in Table 5 demonstrates that EdgeRefine consistently maintains superior sparsity preservation across all privacy budgets. Notably, EdgeRefine achieves density values in the range of 10 −6 to 10 −5, representing a 2-5 order of magnitude improvement over alternative approaches. This exceptional spar-sity preservation is particularly evident at lower privacy budgets (𝜖 ∈ [ 0.5, 1.5]), where EdgeRefine outperforms all comparative methods. The Blink-hard method shows competitive performance at minimal privacy budgets but exhibits significant density inflation as 𝜖 increases beyond 2.0, reaching density values approximately 1000 × higher than EdgeRefine at 𝜖 = 3.5. In contrast, methods like LDPGen and DPRR maintain substantially denser graphs across all privacy settings, with density values consistently above 10 −2,indicating limited applicability in sparsity-sensitive applications. We also analyzed the relationship between density and accuracy in this dataset, as detailed in Appendix C.3. 

Table 5: Normalized Density Values Across Methods                                                                                                               

> 𝜖 EdgeRefine Blink-hard LDPGen DPRR LAPGRAPH
> 0.5 4.255 ×10 −61.216 ×10 −76.129 ×10 −13.778 ×10 −13.777 ×10 −1
> 1.0 4.255 ×10 −68.510 ×10 −74.659 ×10 −12.695 ×10 −12.691 ×10 −1
> 1.5 4.255 ×10 −64.923 ×10 −53.321 ×10 −11.827 ×10 −11.829 ×10 −1
> 2.0 4.255 ×10 −65.668 ×10 −42.247 ×10 −11.196 ×10 −11.195 ×10 −1
> 2.5 4.255 ×10 −62.602 ×10 −31.465 ×10 −17.599 ×10 −27.609 ×10 −2
> 3.0 4.255 ×10 −66.457 ×10 −39.337 ×10 −24.784 ×10 −24.794 ×10 −2
> 3.5 4.255 ×10 −61.056 ×10 −25.842 ×10 −22.956 ×10 −22.963 ×10 −2

Table 6 presents the training and preprocessing time for all base-lines. EdgeRefine achieves the fastest training time across most privacy budgets, with execution time consistently below 4 millisec-onds. This represents a 3-4 order of magnitude improvement over methods like LDPGen, which requires thousands of milliseconds to complete training. The exceptional efficiency of EdgeRefine can be attributed to its ability to maintain ultra-sparse graph struc-tures, which dramatically reduces the computational overhead of neighborhood aggregation operations in GNNs. Notably, Blink-hard demonstrates competitive training time at lower privacy budgets but experiences exponential time complexity growth as 𝜖 increases, with training time rising to 62.3 milliseconds at 𝜖 = 3.5, while EdgeRefine maintains a steady training time. 

Table 6: Training Time (ms) and Preprocessing Time (s) Across Methods 

𝜖 EdgeRefine Blink-hard LDPGen DPRR LAPGRAPH 

0.5 1.572 (1104.3) 1.938 (46.5) 3644 (1.9) 790 .8 (13.5) 734 .5 (1.1) 1.0 1.420 (836.1) 1.256 (46.5) 1922 (1.9) 345 .8 (12.7) 350 .7 (1.2) 1.5 1.891 (628.4) 1.205 (46.5) 425 .7 (1.9) 242 .7 (12.1) 242 .2 (1.2) 2.0 1.274 (491.1) 3.513 (46.5) 293 .4 (1.9) 375 .5 (11.6) 364 .6 (1.2) 2.5 1.348 (427.8) 14 .15 (46.6) 189 .1 (1.9) 123 .7 (11.3) 212 .6 (1.2) 3.0 3.410 (357.6) 25 .35 (46.5) 253 .8 (1.9) 64 .13 (11.0) 126 .4 (1.1) 3.5 2.554 (308.3) 62 .30 (46.6) 176 .0 (1.9) 78 .71 (10.9) 156 .3 (1.1) 

Notes: Preprocessing time in parentheses 

Regarding preprocessing time (shown in parentheses in Table 6), EdgeRefine exhibits relatively longer preprocessing time, ranging from 308.3 to 1104.3 seconds, which is due to the iterative edge sampling and refinement process. However, it is important to em-phasize that the preprocessing module of EdgeRefine is completely decoupled from the downstream training phase. In practical deploy-ment scenarios, preprocessing tasks can be executed on dedicated servers and completed offline in advance. Therefore, they exert no substantial impact on the overall system performance. In contrast, methods like DPRR, LAPGRAPH, and LDPGen show much shorter preprocessing time, but their training time becomes significantly longer, making them less efficient for practical use. The inverse relationship between privacy protection strength and computational efficiency follows expected theoretical patterns, with stricter privacy guarantees (lower 𝜖 ) generally requiring more Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

intensive processing. EdgeRefine incurs the longest preprocessing time but maintains strong training efficiency across the privacy budget spectrum, effectively decoupling training cost from privacy strength while achieving high performance. 

6.2.3 Probability Estimation Quality Analysis ( RQ3 ). We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the probability estimation qual-ity in our framework by comparing the estimated probability ma-trix against the ground-truth adjacency matrix. We selected two datasets, Cora and DBLP, which are representative in terms of accu-racy trends. The evaluation was performed under varying privacy budgets 𝜖 ranging from 0.5 to 3.5, using three error metrics: MAE, Brier score, and the ECE/pMAD ratio. The experimental result is shown in Figure 4. 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 MAE 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 ECE/pMAD ECE/pMAD 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 Brier MAE Brier 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 040 80 120 (b) Performance on DBLP (a) Performance on Cora 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 040 80 120 

Figure 4: Performance of Probability Estimation Error 

On the Cora dataset as shown in Figure 4(a), all metrics follow the general improvement trend observed in the other datasets. The MAE reduces from 0.3779 to 0.0320, and the Brier score declines from 0.1437 to 0.0023, both demonstrating substantial enhance-ments exceeding 90%. The ECE/pMAD ratio decreases from approx-imately 68.4 to 23.1, but exhibits the most pronounced fluctuations among the three datasets. The ratio shows an initial rapid decline, followed by a temporary increase around 𝜖 ∈ [ 2.5, 3.0], before settling at the final value. This non-monotonic behavior indicates that the calibration quality relative to dispersion may be influenced by dataset-specific characteristics and the complex interplay be-tween noise reduction and probability estimation accuracy. Across all three datasets, the consistent improvement in MAE and Brier score confirms that our probability estimation method effectively leverages reduced noise, while the ECE/pMAD patterns reveal the nuanced relationship between calibration quality and estimate vari-ability under different privacy constraints. On the DBLP dataset in Figure 4(b), the performance of our prob-ability estimation is consistent with the trends observed on the other datasets. All metrics demonstrate significant performance improvement as the privacy budget increases. The MAE and Brier score exhibit a clear decreasing trend, with the latter nearing zero at higher privacy budgets, indicating enhanced probabilistic fore-casting accuracy. The ECE/pMAD ratio also follows a generally declining but non-monotonic pattern, similar to the behavior ob-served on the Cora dataset. Despite these improvements in probability estimation quality, the final classification performance of EdgeRefine does not strongly depend on the absolute accuracy of the probabilities. For instance, even at low 𝜖 values where MAE and Brier scores are relatively high (e.g., 𝜖 = 0.5), our framework maintains competitive node classifica-tion accuracy, as shown in earlier experiments. ECE/pMAD’s non-monotonic behavior, which shows similar patterns across datasets, suggests that ECE/pMAD may serve as a more sensitive indicator of the underlying dynamics in probability estimation. Therefore, while high-quality probability estimation is beneficial, it is not the primary driver of denoising effectiveness; our framework’s robust-ness stems from the integrated approach that balances multiple components. The expansion experiments also confirm that EdgeRefine main-tains close classification performance over a large privacy budget span. Detailed experimental data are presented in Appendix C.4. 

6.2.4 Parameter Analysis ( RQ4 ). We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our proposed framework on two widely-used citation networks, DBLP and Cora, to systematically assess its robustness and scalability. The experiments were performed under a strict pri-vacy budget of 𝜖 = 2.0, employing GAT, GCN, and GIN. The models were trained and evaluated under a range of sampling rates 𝑘 (specif-ically, 𝑘 = 0.005 , 0.01 , 0.05 , 0.1, 0.3, 0.5) to examine the relationship between graph sparsification and model utility. The detailed results, encapsulating the test accuracy for each model-architecture-dataset combination, are comprehensively summarized in Table 7. 

Table 7: Performance of EdgeRefine under Different Sam-pling Rates 

Dataset Model Sampling Rate 𝑘 

0.005 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.3 0.5 DBLP GAT 0.8153 0.7919 0.8350 0.8239 0.8116 0.7783 GCN 0.8079 0.7833 0.7882 0.8140 0.8103 0.7833 GIN 0.7746 0.7734 0.7943 0.7894 0.7660 0.7328 Cora GAT 0.7495 0.7514 0.7477 0.7164 0.6759 0.6648 GCN 0.7109 0.7182 0.7164 0.6998 0.7072 0.6777 GIN 0.6740 0.7035 0.6943 0.6335 0.5948 0.5617 

A pivotal and consistent observation from our analysis is the non-monotonic relationship between the sampling rate 𝑘 and the final utility of the models across both datasets and all three archi-tectures. For the Cora dataset, the GAT architecture demonstrates an initial improvement in accuracy, rising from 0.7495 at 𝑘 = 0.005 

to a peak of 0.7514 at 𝑘 = 0.01 , after which it experiences a gradual decline as 𝑘 increases further, eventually reaching 0.6648 at 𝑘 = 0.5.A remarkably similar trend is observed for GCN on Cora, where accuracy increases from 0.7109 at 𝑘 = 0.005 to a maximum of 0.7182 at 𝑘 = 0.01 , before decreasing to 0.6777 at 𝑘 = 0.5. Interestingly, the GCN model exhibits a minor performance recovery at 𝑘 = 0.3 (ac-curacy: 0.7072), hinting at a potentially different sensitivity profile compared to GAT. The GIN architecture on Cora also achieves its best performance (0.7035) at 𝑘 = 0.01 , but appears more sensitive to higher 𝑘 values, experiencing a sharper decline in accuracy. On the larger and more complex DBLP dataset, the optimal sampling point varies. The GAT model peaks at a higher 𝑘 = 0.05 with an EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

accuracy of 0.8350, suggesting it might benefit from a denser, al-beit noisier, graph structure on this dataset. Conversely, the GCN model on DBLP achieves its best performance (0.8140) at 𝑘 = 0.1 ,while GIN, similar to its behavior on Cora, performs best (0.7943) at 𝑘 = 0.05 . This variation underscores that the optimal 𝑘 is not universal but is contingent upon the specific dataset characteristics and the intrinsic properties of the GNN architecture employed. The trend is explained by 𝑘 ’s dual effect on graph structure. Lower 𝑘 values enhance edge credibility by selectively preserving high-probability connections, boosting Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR), but may oversparsify the graph. Higher 𝑘 values improve connec-tivity at the cost of introducing noisy edges, reducing SNR. Optimal performance balances sufficient connectivity with minimal noise. 

6.2.5 Ablation Study ( RQ5 ). We conducted a comprehensive abla-tion study to quantitatively evaluate the contribution of the pro-posed privacy-preserving components in our EdgeRefine frame-work. The study systematically compares the performance of our full framework against an ablated version, where critical mecha-nisms including Jaccard-based probability estimation and deter-ministic sampling modules were removed, retaining only the basic randomized response perturbation mechanism. This design allows us to isolate the effects of individual components and assess their importance in maintaining utility under differential privacy con-straints. All experiments were performed on both Cora and DBLP datasets across three representative GNN architectures (GAT, GCN, GIN) under varying privacy budgets 𝜖 ranging from 0.5 to 3.5, with performance measured using node classification accuracy. The ex-perimental results are shown in Figure 5. The reported results are averaged over three runs, which accounts for the slight differences from the results shown in Figure 3. 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC  EdgeRefine Ablation Cora DBLP 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC (a) GAT (b) GCN (c) GIN 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 ACC 

Figure 5: Ablation Study 

The DBLP dataset results demonstrate the performance advan-tages of our framework. EdgeRefine maintains accuracy around 0.8 across the privacy budget spectrum. In contrast, the accuracy of the ablated version remains around 0.3 for privacy budgets with 

𝜖 < 2.5. Although its performance shows a slight improvement at higher budgets ( 𝜖 ≥ 2.5) in Figure 5(a), it does not exceed 0.6 under the GAT architecture, which is more than 20% lower than our results. This indicates that the ablated version cannot fully leverage the relaxed privacy constraints to close the performance gap. On the Cora dataset in Figure 5, EdgeRefine achieves an average accuracy above 0.76 with GAT across all evaluated privacy budgets, while consistently outperforming the ablated variant across all three GNN architectures. For example, under the GAT architecture with a privacy budget of 𝜖 = 0.5, our framework achieves an accuracy of 0.8066, significantly outperforming the ablated version’s 0.3005. The average improvement of 0.4398 absolute accuracy points. Even when the ablated version yields minor gains at higher privacy budgets, it fails to close the performance gap, while our EdgeRefine under GIN architecture in Figure 5(c) maintains a 14.4% relative improvement over the ablated one. In addition, we also conducted experiments to evaluate our de-terministic sampling method separately. Specifically, we use the probability matrix obtained from the Jaccard probability estimation section to compare our deterministic sampling and the commonly used effective method in probability estimation, top-k sampling. The experimental results show that the sampling method under sparsity constraints and true false ratio constraints is better than sampling sorted by probability, which proves the effectiveness of our pro-posed EdgeRefine. We further performed a comprehensive compar-ison of different probability estimation and calibration methods, with results confirming the superiority of the Jaccard+histogram combination. Detailed results of these experiments are provided in Appendix C.5 and Appendix C.6. 

6.2.6 Graph Classification Results ( RQ6 ). We further conducted experiments to evaluate the performance of EdgeRefine on the graph classification task. Table 8 presents the average classification accuracy of GAT, GCN, and GIN models on perturbed graphs under different 𝜖 values on the MUTAG [ 6] dataset, compared with the original noise-free graph from client. 

Table 8: Graph Classification Accuracy under Varying 𝜖 Val-ues 

Model Noise-free 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 

GAT 0.684 0.589 0.579 0.642 0.632 0.663 0.642 0.737 GCN 0.611 0.642 0.642 0.589 0.589 0.611 0.642 0.674 GIN 0.747 0.716 0.695 0.684 0.684 0.758 0.747 0.747 

From Table 8, we observe that the classification performance re-mains competitive with the noise-free baseline even under substan-tial privacy constraints ( 𝜖 ≥ 2.5). For GIN, the accuracy consistently approaches the noise-free baseline, with 𝜖 = 2.5 achieving 0.758, surpassing the noise-free baseline. The GAT model also demon-strates stable performance, particularly with 𝜖 = 3.5 yielding 0.737, which is comparable to the noise-free baseline. In general, our per-turbation mechanism preserves essential structural information, enabling GNNs to maintain effective performance for downstream graph classification tasks while providing rigorous privacy guaran-tees. Although the link prediction task fundamentally conflicts with the goal of protecting edge privacy, we still conducted small-scale experiments. The results indicate that the link prediction task per-formed poorly, consistent with our expectations, as detailed in Appendix C.7. Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

6.2.7 Anti Attack Performance ( RQ7 ). The resistance to inference attacks is a critical metric for evaluating the practical privacy guarantees of graph perturbation mechanisms. We employ the GRAND [ 2 ] attack, a state-of-the-art graph reconstruction attack, to assess the vulnerability of our perturbed graphs. The attack attempts to reconstruct the original graph structure from the per-turbed adjacency matrix ˆ𝐴 .

Table 9: RAE (Resistance to GRAND Attack) under Different Privacy Budgets 

𝜖 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 

Cora 1.9977 1.9456 1.9373 1.9848 1.9689 1.9485 1.9488 AMAP 1.6134 1.6127 1.6107 1.5407 1.4599 1.3244 1.1425 

Table 9 presents the resistance of our perturbation mechanism against the GRAND attack across different privacy budgets on the Cora and AMAP datasets. The RAE values are consistently above 1.9 for the Cora dataset and above 1.1 for the AMAP dataset across all privacy budgets, indicating strong resistance to graph recon-struction attacks. Notably, on the Cora dataset, the RAE remains high (averaging 1.962) regardless of the privacy budget, demon-strating that even with relatively weak privacy protection ( 𝜖 = 3.5), the perturbed graph structure effectively obfuscates the original topology. For the larger AMAP dataset, although the RAE decreases as 𝜖 increases (from 1.6134 at 𝜖 = 0.5 to 1.1425 at 𝜖 = 3.5), it re-mains on average at 1.472, indicating that the attack consistently fails to accurately reconstruct the original graph. This robustness stems from the random edge perturbation mechanism, which in-troduces sufficient uncertainty in the graph structure to thwart inference attacks while preserving essential topological properties for downstream tasks. Our results show that our method maintains high RAE values, especially on Cora, where the RAE is almost constant and close to 2, indicating that the attacker’s recovery ability is severely hindered. 

Overall Result: These results collectively demonstrate that the proposed components essentially contribute to maintaining utility under privacy constraints. The integration of Jaccard-based proba-bility estimation with deterministic sampling creates a synergistic effect that enables effective edge selection while preserving struc-tural properties. The comprehensive experimental results further demonstrate that our proposed method effectively addresses the three key technical challenges identified earlier. Firstly, the probabil-ity error of our estimation is at a low level across all privacy budget intervals and rapidly decreases as the privacy budget increases. This indicates that the probability we calculat can effectively identify trustworthy edges and solve TC1 . Secondly, the node classification accuracy of our framework remains close to the noise-free base-line throughout the entire privacy budget range, showing a very stable trend. This indicates that even when the probability error is relatively high, we can still maintain utility without relying solely on the quality of probability. These performances strongly demon-strate that we have solved TC2 . Finally, our deterministic sampling algorithm ensures absolute stable sparsity, which brings significant advantages in terms of time overhead. Our framework outperforms almost all baseline schemes in terms of sparsity and time cost met-rics across all privacy budgets. Therefore, our framework can be considered as the best solution to TC3 .

## 7 Conclusion 

To address the challenge of balancing edge-level differential privacy with utility, this paper presents EdgeRefine, a practical framework for privacy-preserving graph learning. EdgeRefine applies Jaccard similarity and deterministic sampling to preserve graph structure while maintaining privacy guarantees. The experiments show that EdgeRefine delivers consistent performance across four diverse datasets and three GNN architectures. It achieves stable perfor-mance comparable to the noise-free baseline, with an accuracy of approximately 0.9 on ACM dataset. The graph classification task and attack experiments also demonstrate EdgeRefine’s supe-rior performance on other downstream tasks as well as its strong privacy-preserving capability. The framework establishes a foundation for reliable privacy-preserving graph analysis and is amenable to extension for dynamic network settings. 

## Acknowledgments 

This paper used deepseek for grammar checking and minor lan-guage polishing. This work is supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant U23A20300; in part by the “Pioneer” and “Leading Goose” R&D Program of Zhe-jiang under Grant No. 2026C01020; in part by the Concept Veri-fication Funding of Hangzhou Institute of Technology of Xidian University under Grant GNYZ2024XX007; in part by the Funda-mental Research Funds for the Central Universities under Grant QTZX26067; and in part by the 111 Project under Grant B16037. 

## References                 

> [1] Association for Computing Machinery. Acm digital library, 2024. [2] Sofiane Azogagh, Zelma Aubin Birba, Josée Desharnais, Sébastien Gambs, Marc-Olivier Killijian, and Nadia Tawbi. Grand: Graph reconstruction from potential partial adjacency and neighborhood data. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 2 , pages 47–58, 2025. [3] Samy Benslimane, Jérôme Azé, Sandra Bringay, Maximilien Servajean, and Caro-line Mollevi. A text and gnn based controversy detection method on social media.
> World Wide Web , 26(2):799–825, 2023. [4] Nikzad Chizari, Keywan Tajfar, and María N Moreno-García. Bias assessment approaches for addressing user-centered fairness in gnn-based recommender systems. Information , 14(2):131, 2023. [5] DBLP Team. Dblp computer science bibliography, 2024. [6] Asim Kumar Debnath, Rosa L Lopez de Compadre, Gargi Debnath, Alan J Shuster-man, and Corwin Hansch. Structure-activity relationship of mutagenic aromatic and heteroaromatic nitro compounds. correlation with molecular orbital energies and hydrophobicity. Journal of medicinal chemistry , 34(2):786–797, 1991. [7] Michaël Defferrard, Xavier Bresson, and Pierre Vandergheynst. Convolutional neural networks on graphs with fast localized spectral filtering. In Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems ,NIPS’16, page 3844–3852, Red Hook, NY, USA, 2016. Curran Associates Inc. [8] Juri Di Rocco, Claudio Di Sipio, Davide Di Ruscio, and Phuong T Nguyen. A gnn-based recommender system to assist the specification of metamodels and models. In 2021 ACM/IEEE 24th International Conference on Model Driven Engineering Languages and Systems (MODELS) , pages 70–81. IEEE, 2021. [9] Cynthia Dwork, Frank McSherry, Kobbi Nissim, and Adam D. Smith. Calibrating noise to sensitivity in private data analysis. J. Priv. Confidentiality , 7:17–51, 2006. [10] Úlfar Erlingsson, Vasyl Pihur, and Aleksandra Korolova. Rappor: Randomized aggregatable privacy-preserving ordinal response. In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security , pages 1054–1067, 2014. [11] Matthias Fey, Jinu Sunil, Akihiro Nitta, Rishi Puri, Manan Shah, Blaž Stojanovič, Ramona Bendias, Alexandria Barghi, Vid Kocijan, Zecheng Zhang, Xinwei He,

EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

Jan Eric Lenssen, and Jure Leskovec. Pyg 2.0: Scalable learning on real world graphs. In Temporal Graph Learning Workshop @ KDD 2025 , 2025. [12] Faqian Guan, Tianqing Zhu, Wanlei Zhou, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo. Graph neural networks: a survey on the links between privacy and security. 

Artificial Intelligence Review , 57(2):40, 2024. [13] Zhiwei Guo and Heng Wang. A deep graph neural network-based mechanism for social recommendations. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics , 17(4):2776– 2783, 2020. [14] Aric A. Hagberg, Daniel A. Schult, and Pieter J. Swart. Exploring network structure, dynamics, and function using networkx. In Gaël Varoquaux, Travis Vaught, and Jarrod Millman, editors, Proceedings of the 7th Python in Science Conference , pages 11 – 15, Pasadena, CA USA, 2008. [15] Charles R. Harris, K. Jarrod Millman, Stéfan J. van der Walt, Ralf Gommers, Pauli Virtanen, David Cournapeau, Eric Wieser, Julian Taylor, Sebastian Berg, Nathaniel J. Smith, Robert Kern, Matti Picus, Stephan Hoyer, Marten H. van Kerkwijk, Matthew Brett, Allan Haldane, Jaime Fernández del Río, Mark Wiebe, Pearu Peterson, Pierre Gérard-Marchant, Kevin Sheppard, Tyler Reddy, Warren Weckesser, Hameer Abbasi, Christoph Gohlke, and Travis E. Oliphant. Array programming with NumPy. Nature , 585(7825):357–362, September 2020. [16] Michael Hay, Chao Li, Gerome Miklau, and David Jensen. Accurate estimation of the degree distribution of private networks. In Proceedings of the 2009 Ninth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , ICDM ’09, page 169–178, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society. [17] Seira Hidano and Takao Murakami. Degree-preserving randomized response for graph neural networks under local differential privacy. ArXiv , abs/2202.10209, 2022. [18] Paul Jaccard. The distribution of the flora in the alpine zone. 1. New phytologist ,11(2):37–50, 1912. [19] Bo Jiang, Ziyan Zhang, Doudou Lin, Jin Tang, and Bin Luo. Semi-supervised learning with graph learning-convolutional networks. In 2019 IEEE/CVF Con-ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 11305–11312, 2019. [20] Sebestyén Kamp, Giovanni Stracquadanio, and T Ian Simpson. Gnn-suite: a graph neural network benchmarking framework for biomedical informatics. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.10711 , 2025. [21] Ishaan Kumar, Yaochen Hu, and Yingxue Zhang. Eflec: Efficient feature-leakage correction in gnn based recommendation systems. In Proceedings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR conference on research and development in information retrieval , pages 1885–1889, 2022. [22] Xiang-Yang Li, Chunhong Zhang, Taeho Jung, Jianwei Qian, and Linlin Chen. Graph-based privacy-preserving data publication. In IEEE INFOCOM 2016 - The 35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications , pages 1–9, 2016. [23] Yang Li, Michael Purcell, Thierry Rakotoarivelo, David Smith, Thilina Ranbaduge, and Kee Siong Ng. Private graph data release: A survey. ACM Computing Surveys ,55(11):1–39, 2023. [24] David Liben-Nowell and Jon Kleinberg. The link prediction problem for social networks. In Proceedings of the twelfth international conference on Information and knowledge management , pages 556–559, 2003. [25] Wanyu Lin, Baochun Li, and Cong Wang. Towards private learning on decen-tralized graphs with local differential privacy. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , 17:2936–2946, 2022. [26] Tianyu Liu, Yuge Wang, Rex Ying, and Hongyu Zhao. Muse-gnn: Learning unified gene representation from multimodal biological graph data. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:24661–24677, 2023. [27] Andrew McCallum. Cora dataset, 2016. Originally prepared by Andrew McCallum. Hosted at University of Massachusetts Amherst and various other repositories. [28] Guangxu Mei, Ziyu Guo, Shijun Liu, and Li Pan. Sgnn: A graph neural network based federated learning approach by hiding structure. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data) , pages 2560–2568, 2019. [29] Tamara T Mueller, Dmitrii Usynin, Johannes C Paetzold, Daniel Rueckert, and Georgios Kaissis. Sok: Differential privacy on graph-structured data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09205 , 2022. [30] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Soumith Chintala, Gregory Chanan, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito, Zeming Lin, Alban Desmaison, Luca Antiga, and Adam Lerer. Automatic differentiation in pytorch. 2017. [31] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blon-del, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Courna-peau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay. Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research , 12:2825–2830, 2011. [32] Zhan Qin, Ting Yu, Yin Yang, Issa Khalil, Xiaokui Xiao, and Kui Ren. Generating synthetic decentralized social graphs with local differential privacy. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security ,CCS ’17, page 425–438, New York, NY, USA, 2017. Association for Computing Machinery. [33] Manon Réau, Nicolas Renaud, Li C Xue, and Alexandre MJJ Bonvin. Deeprank-gnn: a graph neural network framework to learn patterns in protein–protein interfaces. Bioinformatics , 39(1):btac759, 2023. [34] Oleksandr Shchur, Maximilian Mumme, Aleksandar Bojchevski, and Stephan Günnemann. Pitfalls of graph neural network evaluation. ArXiv , abs/1811.05868, 2018. [35] Petar Velickovic, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Liò, and Yoshua Bengio. Graph attention networks. In 6th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2018, Vancouver, BC, Canada, April 30 - May 3, 2018, Conference Track Proceedings . OpenReview.net, 2018. [36] Pauli Virtanen, Ralf Gommers, Travis E. Oliphant, Matt Haberland, Tyler Reddy, David Cournapeau, Evgeni Burovski, Pearu Peterson, Warren Weckesser, Jonathan Bright, Stéfan J. van der Walt, Matthew Brett, Joshua Wilson, K. Jar-rod Millman, Nikolay Mayorov, Andrew R. J. Nelson, Eric Jones, Robert Kern, Eric Larson, C J Carey, İlhan Polat, Yu Feng, Eric W. Moore, Jake VanderPlas, Denis Laxalde, Josef Perktold, Robert Cimrman, Ian Henriksen, E. A. Quintero, Charles R. Harris, Anne M. Archibald, Antônio H. Ribeiro, Fabian Pedregosa, Paul van Mulbregt, and SciPy 1.0 Contributors. SciPy 1.0: Fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in python. Nature Methods , 17:261–272, 2020. [37] Bohao Wang, Jiawei Chen, Changdong Li, Sheng Zhou, Qihao Shi, Yang Gao, Yan Feng, Chun Chen, and Can Wang. Distributionally robust graph-based recommendation system. In Proceedings of the ACM web conference 2024 , pages 3777–3788, 2024. [38] Fan Wu, Yunhui Long, Ce Zhang, and Bo Li. Linkteller: Recovering private edges from graph neural networks via influence analysis. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 2005–2024, 2022. [39] Zonghan Wu, Shirui Pan, Fengwen Chen, Guodong Long, Chengqi Zhang, and Philip S. Yu. A comprehensive survey on graph neural networks. IEEE Transac-tions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems , 32(1):4–24, 2021. [40] Keyulu Xu, Weihua Hu, Jure Leskovec, and Stefanie Jegelka. How powerful are graph neural networks? In 7th International Conference on Learning Rep-resentations, ICLR 2019, New Orleans, LA, USA, May 6-9, 2019 . OpenReview.net, 2019. [41] Wanghan Xu, Bin Shi, Ao Liu, Jiqiang Zhang, and Bo Dong. Graphpub: Generation of differential privacy graph with high availability. ArXiv , abs/2403.00030, 2024. [42] Liangwei Yang, Zhiwei Liu, Yingtong Dou, Jing Ma, and Philip S Yu. Consisrec: Enhancing gnn for social recommendation via consistent neighbor aggregation. In Proceedings of the 44th international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval , pages 2141–2145, 2021. [43] Xiaoyan Yin, Wanyu Lin, Kexin Sun, Chun Wei, and Yanjiao Chen. A 2 s 2-gnn: Rigging gnn-based social status by adversarial attacks in signed social networks. 

IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , 18:206–220, 2022. [44] Quan Yuan, Zhikun Zhang, Linkang Du, Min Chen, Peng Cheng, and Mingyang Sun. PrivGraph: Differentially private graph data publication by exploiting community information. In 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) , pages 3241–3258, Anaheim, CA, August 2023. USENIX Association. [45] Quan Yuan, Zhikun Zhang, Linkang Du, Min Chen, Mingyang Sun, Yunjun Gao, Michael Backes, Shibo He, and Jiming Chen. Psgraph: Differentially private streaming graph synthesis by considering temporal dynamics. arXiv e-prints ,pages arXiv–2412, 2024. [46] Yong Zeng, Yixin Li, Jiale Liu, Jianfeng Ma, and Zhihong Liu. Pri-pgd: Forging privacy-preserving graph towards spectral-based graph neural network. In 2021 IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) , pages 01–06, 2021. [47] Sen Zhang, Haibo Hu, Qingqing Ye, and Jianliang Xu. Privdpr: Synthetic graph publishing with deep pagerank under differential privacy. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 1 ,pages 1936–1947, 2025. [48] Yi Zhang, Yuying Zhao, Zhaoqing Li, Xueqi Cheng, Yu Wang, Olivera Kotevska, Philip S Yu, and Tyler Derr. A survey on privacy in graph neural networks: Attacks, preservation, and applications. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 2024. [49] Pan Zheng, Shudong Wang, Xun Wang, and Xiangxiang Zeng. Artificial in-telligence in bioinformatics and drug repurposing: methods and applications, 2022. [50] Xiaochen Zhu, Vincent Y. F. Tan, and Xiaokui Xiao. Blink: Link local differential privacy in graph neural networks via bayesian estimation. In Weizhi Meng, Christian Damsgaard Jensen, Cas Cremers, and Engin Kirda, editors, Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2023, Copenhagen, Denmark, November 26-30, 2023 , pages 2651–2664. ACM, 2023. 

## Open Science 

To support reproducibility and facilitate further research in privacy-preserving graph machine learning, we provide a public repository for the preprint version of this work at https://github.com/Liumz-1/EdgeRefine-open. Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

• Source Code: The full implementation of the EdgeRefine framework, written in Python using PyTorch and PyTorch Geometric. The code is documented to facilitate use and extension by the research community. 

• Processed Datasets: The standardized versions of the four benchmark datasets (ACM, DBLP, AMAP, and Cora) used in our experiments, together with scripts for downloading and preprocessing the raw data into the format used in this study. 

• Baseline Implementations: Our implementations of the privacy-preserving baseline methods used in the compara-tive experiments, configured with the parameters reported in the paper. 

• Raw Experimental Data: The key outputs from our exper-iments, including final evaluation metrics such as accuracy under different privacy budgets 𝜖 and other relevant logs. These data provide the exact numbers behind the figures and analysis presented in the paper. 

• Documentation: A comprehensive README.md file describ-ing the experimental setup, dependency installation, data preparation, and commands required to reproduce the key results and figures. The GitHub repository is intended to provide convenient access to the preprint-version artifacts and may be updated or relocated in future releases. 

## A Theoretical Analysis of Security and Utility 

Our EdgeRefine framework establishes a theoretically-grounded framework to privacy-preserving graph analysis through careful integration of differential privacy mechanisms with graph struc-tural properties. The core innovation lies in our strategic use of Jaccard similarity as a robust estimator that naturally resists noise, combined with histogram binning and controlled sampling to bal-ance privacy and utility. Below, we present a structured theoretical analysis of key components. 

Robustness of Jaccard Similarity to Noise: The Jaccard sim-ilarity measure proves particularly effective because it captures meaningful structural relationships that persist even after edge-level perturbations. While individual edges may be flipped during randomization, the overall neighborhood structure exhibits remark-able stability. This arises from Jaccard similarity’s focus on relative overlap rather than absolute edge counts, making it inherently re-silient to random perturbations. Quantitatively, consider the effect of a single edge flip: for node degree 𝑑 𝑖 , the change is linear: 

Δ𝑑 𝑖 = 1

whereas for Jaccard similarity 𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) = |𝑁 (𝑖 )∩ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 ) | |𝑁 (𝑖 )∪ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 ) | , the change is bounded by: 

|Δ𝐽 (𝑖, 𝑗 )| ≤ 1

|𝑁 (𝑖 ) ∪ 𝑁 ( 𝑗 )| 

This indicates that the impact of noise on the Jaccard coefficient is relatively stable. 

Theoretical Advantages of Histogram Binning: Our his-togram binning approach provides superior robustness compared to parametric methods such as ReLU-based neural networks. For a histogram with 𝐵 bins, the mean squared error decays as: 

E[( ˆ𝑝 𝑏 − 𝑝 𝑏 )2] = 𝑂 

 1

𝑛 𝑏 

+ 1

𝐵 2



In contrast, parametric models suffer from approximation error: 

E[( ˆ𝑝 𝑁 𝑁 − 𝑝 )2] = 𝑂 

𝑉 𝑛 + 𝜖 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥 



where 𝑁 is the number of nodes, 𝑛 = 𝑁 (𝑁 −1)/ 2 is the total number of unordered node-pair samples, and 𝑛 𝑏 is the number of samples assigned to bin 𝑏 . With 𝑉 denoting VC-dimension and 𝜖 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥 the approximation error. Histogram estimators avoid 𝜖 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥 entirely and are less prone to overfitting. Additionally, the calibration error satisfies: 

E[| 𝑝 𝑏 − ˆ𝑝 𝑏 |] ≤ √︂ log 𝐵 

2𝑛 

outperforming neural networks that may miscalibrate near decision boundaries. This data-driven approach adapts to diverse graph types without manual tuning. 

Signal-to-Noise Ratio Enhancement via Controlled Sam-pling: The strategic reduction in graph density through controlled sampling enhances both privacy protection and graph quality. By focusing on high-probability edges, we amplify the Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR). Define precision 𝑃 (𝑘 ) as the proportion of true edges among sampled edges at rate 𝑘 ; then: SNR (𝑘 ) = 𝑃 (𝑘 )

1 − 𝑃 (𝑘 )

As 𝑘 decreases, the probability threshold 𝜏 𝑘 (the (1 − 𝑘 )-th quantile) increases, leading to higher precision 𝑃 (𝑘 ) ≥ 𝜏 𝑘 when estimates are well-calibrated. Thus, SNR increases monotonically with decreasing 

𝑘 , improving the reliability of the denoised graph. This selective preservation is crucial for GNNs, which depend on clean structural patterns for message passing. 

Synergistic Integration for Balanced Privacy-Utility: The theoretical strength of EdgeRefine emerges from the synergistic combination of differential privacy guarantees and deterministic probability estimation. The DP framework provides mathematical certainty about privacy protection, while Jaccard-based estimation and histogram binning ensure practical utility preservation. The post-processing properties of DP ensure strict privacy protection even after probability estimation and sampling. This integration addresses both theoretical requirements (e.g., bounded sensitivity) and practical considerations (e.g., scalability across graph types), creating a balanced solution for real-world graph analysis. In summary, our theoretical analysis demonstrates that EdgeRe-fine’s components collaborate well to yield an optimal privacy-utility balance. The Jaccard similarity’s noise resilience, histogram binning’s error bounds, and controlled sampling’s SNR enhance-ment collectively provide a foundation for reliable and effective privacy-preserving graph learning. This theoretical grounding sup-ports the empirical results observed in our experiments. 

## B Graph Neural Networks 

GNNs represent a class of deep learning architectures specifically designed for processing graph-structured data [ 39 ]. The fundamen-tal concept behind GNNs is the message-passing mechanism, where each node iteratively aggregates information from its neighbors EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

to update its own representation. This process can be formally described by the general message-passing framework: 

ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝑣

= 𝜙 



ℎ(𝑘 −1) 

> 𝑣

,𝜓 



{ℎ(𝑘 −1) 

> 𝑢

: 𝑢 ∈ N ( 𝑣 )} 

 

(10) where ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝑣

denotes the representation of node 𝑣 at layer 𝑘 , N ( 𝑣 )

represents the neighborhood of node 𝑣 , 𝜙 is the update function, and 

𝜓 is the aggregation function. Among various GNN architectures, three prominent models have demonstrated exceptional perfor-mance across diverse graph learning tasks. 

Graph Attention Network (GAT) [ 35 ] introduces attention mechanisms to assign learnable weights to neighbors: 

ℎ(𝑙 +1) 

> 𝑣

= 𝜎 ©«∑︁ 𝑢 ∈ N ( 𝑣 )

𝛼 𝑣𝑢 𝑊 (𝑙 )ℎ(𝑙 )

> 𝑢

ª®¬

(11) where 𝛼 𝑣𝑢 denotes the attention coefficient between nodes 𝑣 and 

𝑢 . GAT enables nodes to attend to their neighbors with varying importance, enhancing model expressiveness and interpretability. 

Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) [ 19 ] employs spectral graph convolution with a first-order approximation, defined as: 

𝐻 (𝑙 +1) = 𝜎 

 ˜𝐷 −1/2 ˜𝐴 ˜𝐷 −1/2𝐻 (𝑙 )𝑊 (𝑙 ) 

(12) where ˜𝐴 = 𝐴 + 𝐼 is the adjacency matrix with self-connections, ˜𝐷 

is the degree matrix of ˜𝐴 , and 𝑊 (𝑙 ) represents the trainable weight matrix. GCN provides an efficient approach for semi-supervised learning on graph-structured data by leveraging spectral graph theory. 

Graph Isomorphism Network (GIN) [ 40 ] provides theoreti-cally powerful expressiveness by leveraging the Weisfeiler-Lehman test: 

ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝑣

= MLP (𝑘 ) ©«

(1 + 𝜖 )ℎ(𝑘 −1) 

> 𝑣

+∑︁  

> 𝑢 ∈ N ( 𝑣 )

ℎ(𝑘 −1)

> 𝑢

ª®¬

(13) GIN is provably as powerful as the Weisfeiler-Lehman graph iso-morphism test, making it capable of capturing subtle structural differences between graphs. These architectures, while employing different aggregation and update strategies, share the common objective of effectively cap-turing both structural information and node features for various downstream tasks including node classification, link prediction, and graph classification [7]. 

## C Expansion Experiment C.1 Standard Deviation of Multiple Experiments 

To eliminate experimental randomness and further evaluate the stability of model performance, we further analyze the standard deviation of experimental results. For each privacy budget 𝜖 ∈{0.5, 1.0, ..., 3.5}, we ran the experiment five times and calculated the standard deviation of accuracy. Given the large volume of results, Table 10 reports the average of these seven standard deviations, reflecting the overall stability of our method across different privacy levels. 

Table 10: Average Standard Deviation Across Privacy Budgets (𝜖 = 0.5 to 3.5)                                                                                  

> Arch. Dataset EdgeRefine Blink-hard Blink-hybrid DPRR LAPGRAPH LDPGen GAT ACM 0.0078 0.0185 0.0185 0.0529 0.0202 0.0391 AMAP 0.0155 0.0102 0.0116 0.0674 0.1391 0.0724 Cora 0.0147 0.0179 0.0179 0.0186 0.0187 0.0180 DBLP 0.0112 0.0130 0.0130 0.0248 0.0150 0.0172 GCN ACM 0.0111 0.0214 0.0203 0.0134 0.0394 0.0327 AMAP 0.1301 0.0674 0.0714 0.0089 0.0562 0.0311
> Cora 0.0217 0.0261 0.0226 0.0235 0.0185 0.0176 DBLP 0.0100 0.0142 0.0110 0.0154 0.0160 0.0132 GIN ACM 0.0126 0.0818 0.0818 0.0168 0.0476 0.0525 AMAP 0.0944 0.1544 0.1303 0.0089 0.0111 0.0157 Cora 0.0172 0.0298 0.0298 0.0161 0.0255 0.0208 DBLP 0.0120 0.0189 0.0189 0.0176 0.0138 0.0130
> Average 0.0299 0.0395 0.0373 0.0237 0.0351 0.0286

Notes: In each row, the best result is underlined , while the second-best result is highlighted in bold .

Several observations emerge from the table. Overall, EdgeRefine achieves low averaged standard deviations across most dataset– architecture combinations, particularly on ACM and DBLP, where variance remains minimal across all privacy levels. This confirms that our framework delivers stable performance in the vast majority of cases. That said, AMAP does introduce isolated instability, though its severity varies by architecture. From the average standard de-viations (averaged over all privacy budgets), two combinations emerge as outliers: GCN-AMAP (0.1301) and GIN-AMAP (0.0944). Importantly, their underlying stability profiles differ significantly. Specifically, GCN-AMAP’s larger variance is distributed relatively uniformly across privacy budgets, whereas GIN-AMAP, despite its lower average standard deviation, exhibits sporadic extreme deviations—most notably a sharp spike at 𝜖 = 3.0.Other schemes reflect similar disparities: Blink-hard and Blink-hybrid on GIN-AMAP reach 0.1544 and 0.1303, respectively, and LAPGRAPH on GAT-AMAP spikes to 0.1391. These elevated deviations are confined to specific model–dataset pairings. The cross-architecture pattern suggests that AMAP’s sparser or more heterogeneous topology can amplify sensitivity for certain combinations, yet EdgeRefine preserves strong overall stabil-ity on most benchmarks. In the following subsection, we conduct a targeted 𝑡 -test on these high-variance points to determine whether the observed fluctuations stem from the privacy mechanism or from inherent model–dataset sensitivity. 

## C.2 Special Case Analysis 

The performance curves in Figure 3 reveal an intriguing anomaly on the AMAP dataset with the GIN architecture: the EdgeRefine model under differential privacy occasionally matches or even sur-passes the noise-free baseline. This contradicts the conventional expectation that privacy-preserving mechanisms strictly degrade utility. To investigate this phenomenon rigorously, we conducted an additional controlled experiment. When initialized with the same random seed, GIN deterministi-cally produces the exact same accuracy across repeated runs on this dataset. Consequently, a single-seed comparison would offer no Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

statistical basis for inference. We therefore ran both the noise-free baseline and EdgeRefine with 𝜖 = 3.0 under 8 different initialization conditions (seeds 47 through 54), isolating the effect of the privacy mechanism from the variance induced by different random seeds. The noise-free baseline exhibits extreme instability, as corrob-orated by Table 10 in Appendix C.1: AMAP consistently induces higher variance across all three architectures (GAT, GCN, and GIN) compared to ACM, Cora, and DBLP. This cross-architecture pattern confirms that the observed instability is not specific to GIN, but stems from structural properties of AMAP itself—likely its sparser or more heterogeneous topology—which fundamentally amplify the sensitivity of all models to experimental variation. Table 11 reports the independent two-sample 𝑡 -test on the 8 runs. The test yields 𝑡 = 1.267 with a two-sided 𝑝 -value of 0.226 .We fail to reject the null hypothesis: there is no statistically signifi-cant difference between EdgeRefine at 𝜖 = 3.0 and the noise-free baseline. 

Table 11: Performance Comparison: Noise-Free Baseline vs. EdgeRefine ( 𝜖 = 3.0) on GIN-AMAP 

Metric Number of runs Mean Std 𝑝 -value 

Noise-Free Baseline 8 0.3407 0.1352 0.226 EdgeRefine ( 𝜖 = 3.0) 8 0.4454 0.1907 

This finding provides a definitive explanation for the apparent anomaly. The fluctuations previously perceived as privacy-induced are, in fact, manifestations of the GIN model’s inherent instability on the AMAP dataset. When a base model exhibits such high variance, the additional perturbation from differential privacy at 𝜖 = 3.0

is statistically indistinguishable from the noise-free baseline. In other words, the DP mechanism neither meaningfully degrades nor improves performance relative to the already erratic baseline; the two distributions are statistically equivalent. For the GIN-AMAP case, the takeaway is clear: EdgeRefine pre-serves utility at 𝜖 = 3.0 at a level statistically on par with the noise-free baseline, and any local “jumps” in the privacy budget curve reflect the underlying model’s volatility rather than the privacy mechanism’s behavior. 

## C.3 Analysis of the Relationship between Density and Accuracy 

To show the relationship between density and accuracy, Figure 6 presents a detailed analysis of the GAT-DBLP results from Table 5 (Section 6.2.2 ). Each density corresponds to a privacy budget from 0.5 to 3.5. It is worth mentioning that due to the different processing methods for noise edges in different schemes, their graph densities vary greatly. It can be seen that Blink-hard exhibits a significant negative correlation, which primarily stems from its sampling ap-proach that causes dramatic variations in graph sparsity across different privacy budgets. In contrast, other baseline methods main-tain relatively stable graph sparsity levels, typically remaining in lower/higher ranges that closely resemble Blink-hard’s sparsity at privacy budget 3.5, where their accuracy performance is con-sistently low. Notably, our proposed scheme maintains constant sparsity throughout all privacy budgets, matching the sparsity mag-nitude of Blink-hard at privacy budget 1.0 while achieving compa-rable accuracy levels. 0.012 0.085 4.923 56.680 260.200 645.700 1056.000 ×10     

> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> Accuracy
> NormalizedDensity
> Blink-hard
> 0.030
> 0.048
> 0.076
> 0.120
> 0.183
> 0.270
> 0.378
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> Accuracy
> NormalizedDensity
> DPRR
> 0.030
> 0.048
> 0.076
> 0.120
> 0.183
> 0.269
> 0.378
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> Accuracy
> NormalizedDensity
> LAPGRAPH
> 0.058
> 0.093
> 0.147
> 0.225
> 0.332
> 0.466
> 0.613
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> Accuracy
> NormalizedDensity
> LDPGen

Figure 6: Baseline Density and Accuracy 

To complement the visualization above, we further quantified the correlation between density and accuracy across different schemes, as reported in Table 12. Two standard statistical correlation mea-sures are applied: Pearson’s correlation coefficient (yielding a value 

𝑟 ) and Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient (yielding a value 𝜌 ). Pearson’s 𝑟 quantifies the strength and direction of a linear rela-tionship between two continuous variables, ranging from −1 to +1.Spearman’s 𝜌 assesses the strength and direction of a monotonic 

relationship based on the rank order of the data, also ranging from 

−1 to +1, and offers robustness against outliers. Both coefficients are reported alongside corresponding p-values. As shown in Table 12, at the aggregate level across all meth-ods, density exhibits a statistically significant negative correlation with accuracy (Pearson 𝑟 = −0.516 , 𝑝 = 1.53 × 10 −3; Spearman 

𝜌 = −0.763 , 𝑝 ≈ 10 −7), indicating that greater structural perturba-tion systematically reduces GAT node classification accuracy. This trend is particularly pronounced within Blink-hard ( 𝑟 = −0.981 ): as 

𝜖 increases, its normalized density rises from the 10 −7 to the 10 −2

order of magnitude, with accuracy dropping correspondingly from 0.817 to 0.569. However, the internal correlation coefficients for LDPGen, DPRR, and LAPGRAPH do not reach statistical signifi-cance, suggesting that the mapping between density metrics and accuracy in these methods may be dominated by other factors such as differences in perturbation mechanisms. 

## C.4 Stability under High Privacy Budgets 

The experimental evaluation under high privacy budgets provides critical insights into the stability and practical utility of our EdgeRe-fine framework. Our investigation encompasses both DBLP and Cora datasets, evaluated across three GNN architectures (GAT, GCN, GIN) with privacy budgets 𝜖 extending from 0.5 to 9.0, represent-ing an extensive range beyond conventional differential privacy EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

Table 12: Correlation Between Normalized Density and Ac-curacy                                          

> Method Pearson Spearman
> 𝑟 𝑝 -value 𝜌 𝑝 -value EdgeRefine ————Blink-hard −0.981 9.60 ×10 −5−0.964 4.54 ×10 −4
> LDPGen −0.408 0.363 −0.286 0.535
> DPRR +0.510 0.243 0.000 1.000
> LAPGRAPH +0.105 0.823 +0.018 0.969
> Overall −0.516 1.53 ×10 −3−0.763 9.99 ×10 −8
> Notes: EdgeRefine exhibits zero variance in density across all 𝜖 , render-ing correlation undefined. Bold values indicate statistically significant correlations ( 𝑝 <0.05 ).

Table 13: Performance of EdgeRefine at High Privacy Budgets                                                                                                                    

> 𝜖 DBLP Cora
> GAT GCN GIN GAT GCN GIN 0.5 0.8042 0.8042 0.7796 0.8066 0.7587 0.6446 1.0 0.8288 0.8177 0.7857 0.7606 0.6924 0.6924 1.5 0.8153 0.8239 0.8103 0.7882 0.6906 0.6759 2.0 0.8042 0.8239 0.8128 0.7643 0.7072 0.6538 2.5 0.8202 0.7857 0.7869 0.7459 0.7330 0.6630 3.0 0.8091 0.7943 0.7697 0.7624 0.7127 0.6372 3.5 0.8264 0.8165 0.8091 0.7532 0.7035 0.6354 4.0 0.8091 0.7993 0.7709 0.7459 0.6924 0.6630 4.5 0.8079 0.8128 0.8030 0.7882 0.7422 0.6869 5.0 0.8337 0.8030 0.7771 0.7330 0.7385 0.6851 5.5 0.8325 0.7943 0.7919 0.7882 0.7532 0.6648 6.0 0.8091 0.7894 0.7771 0.7661 0.7385 0.6538 6.5 0.8140 0.8165 0.7845 0.7459 0.7366 0.6961 7.0 0.8165 0.8264 0.7796 0.7790 0.7145 0.6501 7.5 0.8313 0.8042 0.7931 0.7845 0.7072 0.6667 8.0 0.8177 0.7943 0.7980 0.7864 0.7274 0.6998 8.5 0.8116 0.8140 0.7943 0.7440 0.7072 0.6501 9.0 0.8153 0.8116 0.7956 0.7661 0.7164 0.6703

studies. This comprehensive setup allows us to assess the frame-work’s behavior under conditions where privacy constraints are progressively relaxed. As detailed in Table 13, the results demonstrate remarkable con-sistency across this broad privacy spectrum. On the DBLP dataset, the GAT architecture maintains accuracy within a narrow band of 0.8042 to 0.8337, with a standard deviation of merely 0.0105, while GCN and GIN show comparable stability with deviations of 0.0112 and 0.0128 respectively. The Cora dataset exhibits slightly greater variation due to its inherent structural characteristics, yet maintains usable performance, with GAT accuracy ranging from 0.7330 to 0.8066. Notably, as 𝜖 increases beyond 3.0, the performance curves ex-hibit a plateau effect where further privacy relaxation yields di-minishing returns. This phenomenon indicates that our framework effectively saturates the utility potential within moderate privacy budgets, and more importantly, maintains this performance level even under extremely high 𝜖 values. While additional privacy bud-get beyond 𝜖 = 3.0 does not generate significant accuracy improve-ments, the sustained high performance confirms that EdgeRefine remains fully operational and effective under these conditions. This stability pattern underscores two key advantages of our approach. First, the Jaccard-based probability estimation mecha-nism demonstrates robust noise resilience, accurately distinguish-ing structural patterns despite varying privacy constraints. Second, the deterministic sampling strategy ensures consistent edge selec-tion quality regardless of privacy budget magnitude. The frame-work’s ability to maintain utility without performance degradation at high 𝜖 values validates its practical deployment potential in sce-narios requiring flexible privacy-utility trade-offs. The consistent performance across diverse datasets and archi-tectures, coupled with the stability observed at extreme privacy budgets, confirms that EdgeRefine provides a reliable solution for privacy-preserving graph learning. While maximum utility is achieved at moderate privacy levels, the framework’s maintained effectiveness at high 𝜖 values ensures backward compatibility and operational robustness in real-world applications where privacy requirements may vary significantly. 

## C.5 Comparison of Sampling Methods 

We conducted an additional experiment to evaluate the superior-ity of our probability sampling method compared to the Top-k sampling method. Using the same probability matrix on the DBLP dataset, we compared both methods across GAT, GCN, and GIN architectures under privacy budgets 𝜖 ranging from 0.5 to 3.5. This controlled comparison allows us to isolate the effects of the sam-pling strategy while keeping all other factors constant. The results, summarized in Table 14, demonstrate clear advantages of our ap-proach. 

Table 14: Performance between Top-k Sampling and Our Sampling on DBLP Dataset                                                   

> 𝜖 GAT GCN GIN
> Top-k Our Top-k Our Top-k Our 0.5 0.7931 0.8042 0.7032 0.8042 0.7623 0.7796
> 1.0 0.8177 0.8288 0.7980 0.8177 0.7808 0.7857
> 1.5 0.7808 0.8153 0.7833 0.8239 0.7672 0.8103
> 2.0 0.8091 0.8042 0.7722 0.8239 0.7685 0.8128
> 2.5 0.8042 0.8202 0.7968 0.7857 0.7525 0.7869
> 3.0 0.8091 0.8091 0.7943 0.7943 0.7660 0.7697
> 3.5 0.8017 0.8264 0.7303 0.8165 0.7537 0.8091

For GAT architecture, EdgeRefine achieves higher accuracy in 5 out of 7 privacy budget settings, with particularly notable improve-ments at 𝜖 = 1.0 where EdgeRefine achieves 0.8288 compared to Top-k’s 0.8177, at 𝜖 = 1.5 with 0.8153 versus 0.7808, and at 𝜖 = 3.5

with 0.8264 versus 0.8017. The average accuracy improvement for GAT is 1.5%, with the largest gain observed at 𝜖 = 1.5 representing a 4.4% performance advantage. For GCN architecture, our method shows even more substantial benefits, outperforming Top-k in 6 out of 7 cases. The improvements are particularly significant at 𝜖 = 0.5 where EdgeRefine achieves Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Wenxiu Ding, Muzhi Liu, Zheng Yan, Mingjun Wang, Yifan Zhao, and Qiao Liu 

0.8042 compared to Top-k’s 0.7032, representing a 14.4% improve-ment, and at 𝜖 = 1.5 with 0.8239 versus 0.7833, a 5.2% advantage. The average improvement for GCN reaches 6.2%, indicating our method’s superior capability in handling graph perturbations for this architecture. GIN architecture also benefits from our approach, with our method achieving better results in 6 out of 7 privacy budget settings. Notable improvements occur at 𝜖 = 1.5 with 0.8103 compared to Top-k’s 0.7672, a 5.6% improvement, and at 𝜖 = 3.5 with 0.8091 versus 0.7537, a 7.4% advantage. The average gain for GIN is 3.1%, demonstrating consistent advantages across different model archi-tectures. The superior performance of EdgeRefine can be attributed to our deterministic sampling strategy, which maintains a more balanced approach to edge selection. Unlike Top-k sampling, which rigidly selects a fixed number of edges based solely on probability rankings, our method employs parameterized sampling rates that consider both edge credibility and overall graph connectivity. This quota-based deterministic selection balances the retention of observed edges with the recovery of potentially missing edges, leading to more stable classification performance. Furthermore, our method is particularly effective when the number and distribution of trustwor-thy edges vary across privacy budgets. Unlike the fixed global Top-k strategy, our method dynamically adjusts the allocation between the two candidate sets to maintain robust performance. This adapt-ability is especially valuable in privacy-preserving graph learning, where the noise characteristics change significantly with different 

𝜖 values. The consistent improvements across all three GNN architectures and multiple privacy budget settings confirm the robustness and general applicability of our probability sampling approach. 

## C.6 Comparison of Probability Estimation and Calibration Methods 

EdgeRefine utilizes various edge probability estimation methods calibrated from similarity metrics. Below are brief descriptions of each method, along with an explanation of the Adamic-Adar coefficient. 

Similarity Metrics: 

Different from Jaccard coefficient, the Adamic_Adar coefficient weights common neighbors inversely by degree: 

𝐴𝐴 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) =∑︁     

> 𝑘 ∈ N ( 𝑖 )∩N ( 𝑗 )

1log |N ( 𝑘 )| , (14) emphasizing connections through low-degree nodes. This makes 

𝐴𝐴 (𝑖, 𝑗 ) particularly effective for graphs with heterogeneous degree distributions, as it gives more weight to rare connections. 

Calibration Methods: 

• simple : Normalize Jaccard coefficients by their maximum value, providing a linear scaling without complex calibration. This is the most computationally efficient approach. 

• isotonic : Use isotonic regression to fit a monotonic func-tion, ensuring probability estimates increase with similarity. This non-parametric method is flexible but can be prone to overfitting. 

• beta : Model similarity scores as Beta distributions for con-nected and unconnected pairs separately, then apply Bayesian inference. This parametric approach assumes a specific dis-tributional form. 

• temperature : Adjust the steepness of the probability func-tion via temperature scaling, optimizing a single parameter to better align with empirical edge frequencies. This is a lightweight variant of Platt scaling. 

• histogram : Partition similarity values into bins and compute edge probabilities as the proportion of edges within each bin. This non-parametric, distribution-free approach adapts flexibly to different graph structures. To evaluate the design choices for similarity measures and cal-ibration techniques in EdgeRefine, we compare different variant configurations. Table 15 presents the node classification accuracy of these variants on the DBLP dataset under a privacy budget of 

𝜖 = 1.0 using the GAT architecture. 

Table 15: Classification Accuracy of EdgeRefine Variants on DBLP Dataset ( 𝜖 = 1.0, GAT)        

> Variant Accuracy
> Jaccard+histogram (Ours) 0.8091
> Jaccard+simple 0.8017 Jaccard+isotonic 0.8017 Jaccard+beta 0.8042 Jaccard+temperature 0.8017 Adamic_Adar+histogram 0.8079

The results demonstrate the superiority of our proposed Jac-card+histogram combination. While the Adamic_Adar+histogram variant achieves comparable accuracy (0.8079 vs. 0.8091), a dedi-cated efficiency analysis on the DBLP dataset under 𝜖 = 1.0 reveals a decisive computational advantage for our method. The prepro-cessing for Adamic_Adar+histogram takes 2537.5 seconds, whereas Jaccard+histogram requires only 836.1 seconds, achieving a 3.03 ×

speedup. This substantial difference stems from the more com-plex logarithmic computations inherent to the Adamic_Adar index, compared to the set-based operations of the more efficient Jaccard similarity. Other calibration methods paired with Jaccard similarity yield lower accuracies (0.8017 to 0.8042) but share its computational efficiency. This comprehensive comparison validates our design decision: the Jaccard similarity measure coupled with histogram-based calibration provides an optimal balance between accuracy, robustness, and computational efficiency for edge probability esti-mation under differential privacy constraints. 

## C.7 Link Prediction Experimental Results 

We additionally evaluated EdgeRefine on the Cora dataset using GAT to determine whether perturbed graphs under different pri-vacy budgets can preserve sufficient structural information for ac-curate link prediction. For each node pair, the predicted link score is compared with its binary ground-truth label. AUC is computed as 

AUC =

∫ 10

TPR (𝑢 ) 𝑑𝑢, EdgeRefine: Privacy-Utility Balance for Graphs via Jaccard Sampling under Edge Differential Privacy Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 

where 𝑢 denotes the false-positive rate, and measures the ability to distinguish existing from non-existing links. AP is computed as 

AP =∑︁ 

> 𝑛

(𝑅 𝑛 − 𝑅 𝑛 −1)𝑃 𝑛 ,

where 𝑃 𝑛 and 𝑅 𝑛 denote the precision and recall at the 𝑛 -th thresh-old. Higher AUC and AP values indicate better link-prediction performance. 

Table 16: Link Prediction Performance (AUC and AP) under Different Privacy Budgets on Cora Dataset                

> 𝜖 Noise-free 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
> AUC 0.9524 0.6829 0.6397 0.5905 0.6590 AP 0.9417 0.7447 0.7135 0.6677 0.7182

The experimental results in Table 16 reveal a fundamental con-flict between edge privacy preservation and link prediction tasks. Compared to the noise-free baseline (AUC=0.9524, AP=0.9417), the privatized graphs under all privacy budgets experience a substantial performance drop, with AUC decreasing by 28.4%–38.0% and AP decreasing by 20.7%–29.1%. This demonstrates that the structural distortion introduced by edge differential privacy fundamentally al-ters the connectivity patterns necessary for accurate link inference. Even as the privacy budget increases, the performance remains sig-nificantly below the noise-free level, confirming that edge privacy protection and link prediction are fundamentally incompatible ob-jectives—while differential privacy protects edge-level information, it unavoidably degrades the structural integrity needed for link prediction tasks.