Title: Canonicalized Stable-List Replay for Private Federated Continual Learning over Language-Model Embeddings

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.00426v1

Published Time: Tue, 02 Jun 2026 00:24:54 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# Canonicalized Stable-List Replay for Private Federated Continual Learning over Language-Model Embeddings 

Ibne Farabi Shihab 1* and Abu Sa-Adat Mohamed Moon-Im Al Ahsan 2 and Anuj Sharma 3

> 1

Department of Computer Science, Iowa State University 

> 2

Department of Computer Science & Engineering, BRAC University 

> 3

Department of Civil, Construction & Environmental Engineering, Iowa State University 

ishihab@iastate.edu , abu.sa.adat.mohamed.moon.im.al.ahshan@g.bracu.ac.bd 

Abstract 

Federated continual learning (FCL) lets dis-tributed clients adapt language-model heads to evolving NLP tasks without sharing raw text. Under user-level differential privacy (DP), replay-based continual learning faces a struc-tural obstacle: clients can release only small noisy lists of candidate replay summaries, and those lists are unordered across clients. We introduce Canonicalized Stable-List Replay (CSLR), where clients privately produce candi-date replay distributions over a shared sentence-embedding space and the server aligns them using signatures induced by public anchor sen-tences. The anchors provide identifiability for aggregation rather than additional replay data. We prove that, under an observable anchor-signature margin, O(log( N/η )/p ) an-chors distinguish N candidate list elements with probability at least 1 − η, and we give a scoped anchorless non-identifiability result for unordered-label oracle models. Across five seeds on continual classification, NER, and di-alogue benchmarks, CSLR improves the final average task metric by 3.9–5.6 points over the strongest non-CSLR DP baseline at ε = 4 un-der the reported replay-release budget, while also outperforming Hungarian and optimal-transport matchers. The formal privacy guar-antee covers replay release; end-to-end private training additionally requires composition with a private optimizer for task-head updates. 

1 Introduction 

Language models deployed across distributed clients—such as hospitals, mobile devices, and or-ganizations handling sensitive documents—must continually adapt to new tasks and domains. Fed-erated learning (FL) enables collaborative training without centralizing text, while continual learning (CL) addresses evolving task streams; their inter-section, federated continual learning (FCL), has  

> *Corresponding author: ishihab@iastate.edu .

therefore attracted growing attention (Yoon et al., 2021; Qi et al., 2023; Babakniya et al., 2023). The central difficulty in FCL is catastrophic for-getting: as clients learn new tasks, performance on earlier tasks degrades. Replay methods mitigate this by rehearsing past data (Rolnick et al., 2019), but raw-text replay conflicts with FL privacy goals, and even model-derived statistics can leak informa-tion. Existing private approaches use differentially private data sharing (Yoon et al., 2021), generative replay (Qi et al., 2023), or diffusion-based synthe-sis (Liang et al., 2024); however, they may weaken privacy guarantees, degrade under DP noise, or struggle with heterogeneous client distributions. We pursue a different replay interface. In-stead of requiring each client to release one replay distribution—a brittle target under user-level DP noise—we allow a small list of candidate distri-butions in sentence-embedding space. This fol-lows stable list decoding in DP density estimation (Afzali et al., 2025; Ghazi et al., 2021), where pro-ducing a list can reduce sample complexity. In FCL, this lets clients privately report useful replay candidates from limited local data, while avoiding the stronger noise burden of a single estimate. Lists, however, introduce a symmetry problem. If Client A outputs {qA 

> 1

, q A 

> 2

, q A 

> 3

} and Client B out-puts {qB 

> 1

, q B 

> 2

, q B 

> 3

}, their local indices need not correspond: mixture components are permutation-invariant, so naive aggregation is undefined. The server must first determine which candidate distri-butions represent the same replay mode. We resolve this with anchor canonicalization. Public anchor sentences, drawn for example from Wikipedia, induce signatures on list elements and thereby break permutation symmetry. Unlike FedTA (Yu et al., 2025), where anchors improve representation quality, our anchors serve identifia-bility : they make aggregation well-defined before replay quality can even be evaluated. We introduce CSLR, a list-based replay interface for private FCL 1

> arXiv:2606.00426v1 [cs.LG] 29 May 2026

over frozen language-model embeddings, together with an anchor-based procedure for aligning un-ordered client lists. We prove a canonicalization guarantee under an explicit anchor-visible margin assumption (Theorem 2), give an anchorless non-identifiability result in an unordered-label oracle model (Proposition 3), and provide replay-release privacy accounting in which local list release and noisy aggregation consume privacy budget, while anchor matching, PSD projection, and replay sam-pling are post-processing. End-to-end user-level DP additionally requires composing this replay-release budget with a DP optimizer for task-head updates. 

2 Related Work 

Federated continual learning combines FL’s privacy constraints with CL’s temporal dynamics. FedWeIT (Yoon et al., 2021) decomposes weights into global and task-specific parameters; FedCIL (Qi et al., 2023) uses generative replay with model consoli-dation; and diffusion-based replay has also been studied for continual federated learning (Mei et al., 2024). AF-FCL (Mei et al., 2025) introduces se-lective replay, and Li et al. (2025) provide a recent survey. These works mitigate forgetting, but they do not address the identifiability problem created when clients release unordered private lists of re-play distributions. Several related systems transfer compact repre-sentations rather than raw examples. Powder (Piao et al., 2024) studies prompt-based dual knowledge transfer in FCL, while MOON (Li et al., 2021) uses contrastive representation alignment to reduce client drift in non-IID FL. CSLR is complementary: it also uses alignment, but aligns replay distribu-tions rather than model representations. Similarly, data-diet methods (Paul et al., 2021) show that se-lecting informative examples can improve training efficiency; CSLR instead releases a list of high-utility private replay candidates and then canonical-izes them across clients. On privacy, DP-SGD (Abadi et al., 2016) and federated DP training (McMahan et al., 2018) are standard, with NLP applications in classifi-cation (Li et al., 2022), NER (Lyu et al., 2020), and generation (Yue et al., 2023). Parameter-efficient private tuning, including private prompt-tuning analyses such as Flocks of Stochastic Par-rots (Duan et al., 2023), is also relevant because CSLR adapts lightweight heads over frozen rep-resentations rather than full encoders. DP-FCL evaluations (Ouyang et al., 2023) further show that privacy mechanisms can interact strongly with for-getting and performance. Our replay-release in-terface builds on list global stability (Ghazi et al., 2021) and agnostic private density estimation for Gaussian mixtures (Afzali et al., 2025), but adds the federated canonicalization layer needed for cross-client replay aggregation. Anchor-based methods also appear in FL, but with different goals. FedTA (Yu et al., 2025) uses tail anchors for representation quality, and FedProto (Tan et al., 2022) aggregates class prototypes. Our anchors instead provide iden-tifiability: they break permutation symmetry so list aggregation is well-defined before replay quality is optimized. 

3 Problem Setting 

We consider a federated continual learning model in which time proceeds in rounds t = 1 , . . . , T . At round t, a subset Ct of clients participates, and each client i ∈ C t holds current text data Di,t from an NLP task that may drift over time—for instance, a new classification domain, a new NER schema, or a new dialogue intent. The objective is to min-imize average risk across all NLP tasks seen so far, 1

> T

PTt=1 Rt(θ), where Rt is the risk on task t

and θ denotes the model parameters. Standard FCL metrics include average accuracy and backward transfer. We target user-level (ε, δ )-DP, in which neigh-boring datasets differ in the entire contribution of one client across the training horizon. This is stronger than record-level DP and is appropriate when each client is a user whose full participa-tion must be protected. We assume access to a pretrained sentence encoder ϕ : text → Rd (for example, a frozen Sentence-BERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) or any publicly pretrained en-coder). Operating in embedding space makes den-sity modeling tractable while letting the task head be trained privately on top of representations that are shared but unchanged. Throughout, “replay” refers to rehearsing embeddings and their associ-ated targets, not raw text. We distinguish two privacy scopes. The first is the replay-release scope: clients release private list candidates and noisy replay summaries from which the server constructs Qt. This is the mechanism analyzed in Theorem 4 and used for the reported privacy–utility experiments. The second is end-

2Algorithm 1 CSLR: one communication round                                                                            

> Require: participating clients Ct;public anchors A=
> {aj}mj=1 ; frozen encoder ϕ; list size L; canonical modes
> K; clipping bounds Bμ, B M, B π, B y; Gaussian noise scales σμ, σ M, σ π, σ y.
> Ensure: private replay generator Qt.1: for each client i∈ C tdo
> 2: Embed local examples z=ϕ(x)and fit a clipped DP list learner to obtain Li,t ={q(ℓ)
> i,t }Lℓ=1 .3: Attach the corresponding conditional replay targets (§4.2). 4: Compute signatures s(q(ℓ)
> i,t ) = (log q(ℓ)
> i,t (ϕ(aj))) mj=1
> for all ℓ.5: end for
> 6: Cluster signatures into canonical groups 1, . . . , K or solve a minimum-cost matching to running prototypes. 7: for each canonical group kdo
> 8: Clip candidate means, second moments, mixture weights, and replay-target summaries; aggregate them through secure aggregation and add Gaussian noise. 9: Project the noisy covariance estimate onto the positive semidefinite cone with eigenvalue floor λmin .10: end for
> 11: Project noisy mixture weights (¯ π1, . . . , ¯πK)onto the probability simplex ∆K,and denote the result by
> (ˆ π1, . . . , ˆπK).12: Return the mixture Qt=PKk=1 ˆπkN(¯ μk,¯Σk)with as-sociated replay targets.

to-end federated training : if task-head weights, gradients, or model updates are transmitted during training, those updates must also be privatized, for example with DP-FedAvg or DP-SGD. The end-to-end budget is therefore the sequential composition of replay release and private model-update training. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, ε in our experi-mental tables denotes the replay-release budget. 

4 Canonicalized Stable-List Replay 

CSLR is organized as five steps that map cleanly onto a single communication round (Figure 1, Algo-rithm 1): clients embed their data and run a DP list density learner; they compute signatures of each candidate against a shared anchor set; the server clusters signatures into canonical groups; per-group sufficient statistics and replay-target summaries are aggregated under DP; and clients train on a mixture of current data and replay drawn from the global generator Qt. We describe each step in turn, em-phasizing the design choices that make the pipeline well defined under permutation symmetry and user-level DP. 

4.1 Local DP List of Replay Distributions 

Each participating client embeds its current text data {xj }ni 

> j=1

into {ϕ(xj )} and runs a DP list-decodable density estimator to produce a small list of candidate replay distributions Li,t =

{q(1)  

> i,t

, . . . , q (L) 

> i,t

}, where each q(ℓ) 

> i,t

is a Gaussian (or Gaussian mixture component) in Rd. Following Afzali et al. (2025), the list output satisfies a sta-bility property: with high probability, at least one 

q(ℓ) is close to the client’s true embedding distri-bution. The privacy–utility benefit of listing arises because, with a single output, DP noise must mask the worst-case sensitivity, whereas with a list the noise can be distributed across candidates. 

4.2 Replay Target Specifications across NLP Tasks 

For the task head to be trained continuously, each component q(ℓ) must carry a corresponding replay target, and the target itself must satisfy a bounded sensitivity so that aggregation remains compatible with DP. The instantiation differs by task family. In text classification (AG-News, Amazon), each component is mapped to a discrete task label dis-tribution or a soft-label logit vector, derived by av-eraging local logits assigned to the component and clipped to ∥g∥2 ≤ Bg before secure aggregation. In sequential NER (OntoNotes-Domain), candidate components correspond to key entity-type contexts, and replay targets are encoded as clipped token-class frequency vectors attached to each compo-nent. In continual dialogue (MultiWOZ-Intent), re-play structures store multi-intent activation masks; clients clip the active intent multi-hot vectors and aggregate them conditionally alongside the compo-nent’s structural parameter estimation. Across all cases the replay target vector y

(or logit vector g) is clipped to ∥y∥2 ≤ By

before aggregation. The released replay dis-tribution is therefore a joint mixture over em-beddings and conditional targets, Qt(z, y ) =P 

> k

¯πkN (z; ¯ μk, ¯Σk)¯ rk(y), where ¯rk is the noisy clipped target summary for canonical group k. This avoids replaying unlabeled embeddings into a su-pervised head. 

4.3 Anchor Set and Canonical Signatures 

The server maintains a small anchor set A =

{a1, . . . , a m} of public sentences, sampled once from a corpus such as Wikipedia and embedded as 

{ϕ(aj )}mj=1 . For each candidate distribution q in a client’s list, the anchor signature is the vector of 3Client text                   

> Di,t
> Frozen encoder
> z=ϕ(x)∈Rd
> DP list learner
> Li,t ={q(ℓ)
> i}Lℓ=1
> Anchor signatures
> s(q) = (log q(ϕ(aj))) mj=1
> Canonical matching assignment
> Noisy aggregation
> ¯μk,¯Σk,¯πk
> Replay generator
> Qt
> Rehearsal training
> Ltask +λLreplay
> Public anchors
> A={aj}mj=1

Figure 1: CSLR pipeline. Clients release private list candidates in a shared embedding space. Public anchors convert unordered candidates into signatures, enabling canonical matching before noisy aggregation into a replay generator. 

log-densities at the anchor embeddings, 

s(q) =   log q(ϕ(a1)) , . . . , log q(ϕ(am))  ∈ Rm.

(1) Because each candidate distribution q is produced by the local DP list learner, the corresponding sig-nature s(q) is a deterministic function of a private release. In the main protocol, anchor-signature computation, signature clustering, canonical ID as-signment, PSD projection, and replay sampling are therefore post-processing operations and do not consume additional privacy budget. This post-processing claim does not apply to variants in which signatures are computed directly from non-private local sufficient statistics; such variants must privatize the signature release itself or replace the matching step with a DP clustering primitive. Our accounting below treats the local list release and the noisy replay aggregation as the privacy-consuming replay-release components. 

4.4 Canonicalization via Signature Clustering 

The server collects all signatures {s(q(ℓ) 

> i,t

)} and clus-ters them into K canonical groups using a deter-ministic stable clustering rule or a minimum-cost assignment to running prototypes. Each cluster cor-responds to a global replay mode—a coherent re-play distribution that multiple clients contribute to. The clustering step assigns canonical IDs k ∈ [K]

to list elements, resolving the permutation ambi-guity, and each client i’s list is reordered into a canonical list ˜Li,t aligned with the global IDs. Be-cause the signatures in our main protocol are post-processing of DP list outputs, the matching step is also post-processing; if raw signatures from non-DP statistics are used instead, this line must be replaced by a DP clustering primitive and included in the accountant. 

4.5 DP Aggregation and Selection 

With canonicalized lists, the server aggregates per-mode. In the parametric variant, candidates are Gaussian, q(ℓ) = N (μ(ℓ), Σ(ℓ)), and the server ag-gregates clipped sufficient statistics through secure aggregation plus Gaussian noise per canonical ID: 

¯μk = 1

|C t|

X

> i∈C t

˜μi,k + N (0 , σ 2

> μ

I),

¯Mk = 1

|C t|

X

> i∈C t

˜Mi,k + N (0 , σ 2 

> M

I).

(2) Mixture weights and replay-target summaries are handled analogously: each client clips πi,k and yi,k 

before aggregation, and the server releases noisy 

¯πk and ¯rk with Gaussian noise calibrated to their clipping sensitivities. Because Gaussian noise can make mixture weights negative or make them fail to sum to one, the noisy vector ¯π = (¯ π1, . . . , ¯πK )

is projected onto the probability simplex 

∆K = {π ∈ RK 

> +

:

> K

X

> k=1

πk = 1 },

and we use the projected weights ˆπ when con-structing Qt. This projection is deterministic post-processing and therefore does not affect the replay-release DP accountant. An alternative is stability-based selection in the sense of Ghazi et al. (2021): a DP-stable selection rule chooses a representa-tive from the union of canonicalized lists without a server validation set. In implementation we aggre-gate second moments rather than raw covariance matrices: each client clips μ and M = E[zz ⊤], the server adds Gaussian noise to the secure aggregate, and the covariance is recovered as Σ = M − μμ ⊤.The result is symmetrized and projected onto the 4positive semidefinite cone by flooring eigenvalues at λmin > 0, guaranteeing a valid Gaussian compo-nent after noise addition. The aggregated per-mode distributions, simplex-projected weights, and target summaries are concatenated into the global replay generator Qt.

4.6 Replay-Augmented Training 

At each round, the server samples replay embed-dings z ∼ Qt, distributes them to participating clients, and clients train on a mixture of current-task data and the replayed embeddings: 

Ltotal = Ltask (Di,t ; θ) + λLreplay (Qt; θ). (3) where Lreplay is a distillation or contrastive loss in embedding space. The replay term anchors the head to past distributional support without requir-ing any client to retain raw past text. 

5 Theoretical Analysis 

Anchors help only when distinct candidates differ on regions observed by the public anchor distribu-tion. We formalize this as anchor-visible separa-tion, bound the required number of anchors, and delimit the regime where anchorless matching is insufficient. 

Definition 1 (Anchor-visible separation) . Let ρ be the public anchor distribution over embedded an-chor points u = ϕ(a). A family Q is (p, γ ) anchor-visible if for every pair q, q ′ ∈ Q that should re-ceive different canonical IDs, 

ρ  u : | log q(u) − log q′(u)| ≥ γ  ≥ p. (4) 

The parameter p measures how often public an-chors land in regions where the pair is distinguish-able, and γ is the signature margin at such anchors. 

Theorem 2 (Anchor sufficiency under observ-able signature margins) . Consider N candidate replay distributions appearing across all clients and rounds, where N = PTt=1 |C t|L. Suppose every pair of candidates that should receive dif-ferent canonical IDs is (p, γ ) anchor-visible with respect to the public anchor distribution ρ. Draw 

m anchors independently from ρ and define s(q) = (log q(ϕ(a1)) , . . . , log q(ϕ(am))) . If 

m ≥ 1

p log N 2

η , (5) 

then with probability at least 1 − η every distinct pair has at least one anchor coordinate j such that 

|sj (q) − sj (q′)| ≥ γ. Consequently, any deter-ministic matching rule that separates signatures at margin γ/ 2 uniquely distinguishes all true canoni-cal groups in the noiseless-signature case. 

For a fixed pair, the failure probability is at most 

(1 − p)m ≤ e−pm ; a union bound over O(N 2)

pairs proves the result (Appendix A). The theorem is deliberately conditional: TV, Wasserstein, or mean separation imply anchor visibility only with assumptions on the anchor distribution, support overlap, covariance conditioning, and log-density boundedness. We therefore tune anchor size empir-ically. If comparable Gaussian parameters are available in a shared coordinate system, nearest-mean, Hun-garian, or OT matching are legitimate anchorless baselines. The next result instead covers a stricter unordered-label oracle model with no shared pa-rameters or public reference evaluations. 

Proposition 3 (Anchorless non-identifiability for label-sensitive replay) . Let there be K ≥ 2 re-play modes, and suppose each client reports an un-ordered list of K local symbols. For each client i,the local symbol order is related to the global mode order by an unknown permutation σi ∈ SK . The server receives only the unordered local symbols and their within-client replay targets, not shared-coordinate parameters, public anchor evaluations, validation examples, or a shared random seed. If the downstream replay loss is label-sensitive— meaning that assigning a target from mode k to mode k′̸ = k incurs error at least c > 0—then any deterministic anchorless server must either repre-sent all K! possible global alignments for at least one client, select a single alignment and be wrong on at least a 1 − 1/K ! fraction of equally likely permutations, or use additional side information not present in the oracle model. In the second case, the expected label-sensitive replay error is at least 

c(1 − 1/K !) under the uniform prior over permu-tations. 

The proof is an invariance argument: all K!

permutations induce the same observation, so a deterministic algorithm cannot identify the true alignment without extra information (Appendix B). This is an identifiability statement, not a DP lower bound; coordinate-space Hungarian and OT base-lines escape this oracle regime and are evaluated below. We next account for replay release using Rényi DP composition (Mironov, 2017). Each round com-5poses a local DP list learner with noisy aggregation of clipped per-mode summaries. Anchor matching and replay construction operate only on released objects and are post-processing. 

Theorem 4 (Replay-release user-level DP under RDP composition) . Fix a communication round t.Let Mlist  

> t

denote the local DP list-release mecha-nism run by participating clients, and let Magg  

> t

de-note the server-side noisy aggregation mechanism after canonical matching. Suppose Mlist  

> t

satisfies Rényi DP of order α > 1 with cost εlist  

> t

(α). For the aggregation step, suppose each participating client contributes clipped sufficient statistics with 

ℓ2 sensitivity at most Sμ for means, Frobenius sen-sitivity at most SM for second moments, sensitivity at most Sπ for mixture weights, and sensitivity at most Sy for replay-target summaries. Releasing noisy aggregates with Gaussian noise standard de-viations σμSμ, σM SM , σπSπ, and σySy satisfies Rényi DP cost 

εagg  

> t

(α) ≤ α

2σ2

> μ

+ α

2σ2

> M

+ α

2σ2

> π

+ α

2σ2

> y

, (6) 

up to standard subsampling amplification when only a random subset of clients participates. The replay-release mechanism in round t therefore sat-isfies 

εreplay  

> t

(α) ≤ εlist  

> t

(α) + εagg  

> t

(α). (7) 

Over T adaptive rounds, RDP costs compose as 

εreplay 1: T (α) ≤

> T

X

> t=1

εreplay  

> t

(α). (8) 

The replay-release mechanism is (ε, δ )-DP for any 

δ > 0 with 

ε = min 

> α> 1



εreplay 1: T (α) + log(1 /δ )

α − 1



. (9) 

Deterministic anchor matching, canonical ID as-signment, PSD projection, replay sampling from the released Qt, and downstream use of the re-leased replay samples are post-processing of the re-play release and do not increase this replay-release privacy cost. 

Theorem 4 covers replay release only. End-to-end private training additionally requires a DP op-timizer for communicated task-head updates, with budgets composed sequentially. Our tables report the replay-release budget unless stated otherwise. The proof is in Appendix C. Finally, we record a retention bound that con-nects replay quality to forgetting. The role of the bound is structural rather than quantitative: it shows that better replay (in TV to the ideal past-task distribution) directly controls forgetting up to optimization, sampling, and finite-client effects. 

Theorem 5 (Forgetting control via replay quality) .

Let θt be the model after round t, trained with replay from Qt. Let Q⋆t denote the ideal replay distribution over past-task embeddings and targets, and suppose TV( Qt, Q ⋆t ) ≤ αt. Assume the re-play loss ℓ(θ; z, y ) is bounded in [0 , 1] and that the replay-loss class induced by the task head has uni-form estimation error O(pd/n r) from nr replay samples. Assume further that, for each past task t,excess task risk is controlled by excess ideal replay loss up to optimization and finite-client error: 

Rt(θT )−Rt(θt) ≤ c0

 LQ⋆t (θT ) − L Q⋆t (θt)+ξt+O(C−1/2min ),

(10) 

for a universal constant c0 > 0, where 

Cmin = min  

> t

|C t|.

If replay-augmented training achieves empirical replay optimization error at most ξt at round t,then 

¯FT = 1

T

> T

X

> t=1

 Rt(θT )−Rt(θt) ≤ O ¯α +

r dnr

+ ¯ξ + C−1/2min 

!

,

(11) 

where 

¯α = 1

T

> T

X

> t=1

αt, ¯ξ = 1

T

> T

X

> t=1

ξt.

The proof is in Appendix D. The bound is a stability statement, not an end-to-end convergence theorem. It motivates canonicalization: avoiding mode mismatch reduces the replay gap αt.The bound is a stability statement, not an end-to-end convergence theorem. It motivates canon-icalization: avoiding mode mismatch reduces the replay gap αt.

6 Experiments 

6.1 Setup 

We evaluate CSLR on four federated continual NLP benchmarks, summarized in Table 1. Split-AG-News uses four AG News topics as sequential clas-sification tasks with 20 clients and a Dirichlet (0 .5) 

6Table 1: Benchmark protocol summary. Task-ID avail-ability follows the standard task-incremental setting.                     

> Benchmark Tasks Clients Partition Metric Split-AG-News 420 Dir (0 .5) Accuracy Split-Amazon 550 Dir (0 .3) Accuracy OntoNotes-Domain 630 Domain Entity F1 MultiWOZ-Intent 740 Dir (0 .5) Accuracy

partition. Split-Amazon uses five Amazon prod-uct domains with 50 clients and Dirichlet (0 .3) het-erogeneity. OntoNotes-Domain evaluates sequen-tial NER across six OntoNotes domains with 30 domain-stratified clients. MultiWOZ-Intent evalu-ates dialogue intent classification across seven ser-vice domains with 40 clients and Dirichlet (0 .5) par-titioning. Classification tasks use frozen Sentence-BERT embeddings (all-MiniLM-L6-v2, d = 384 )with a trainable two-layer MLP head; NER uses frozen BERT-base token embeddings. We focus on continual adaptation of language-model heads over frozen representations, which isolates replay-distribution learning and keeps user-level account-ing tractable; jointly trained encoders would re-quire re-anchoring and are left to future work. Ad-ditional implementation details and statistical re-porting conventions are given in Appendices F and G. Privacy is enforced for replay release with user-level (ε, δ )-DP for ε ∈ { 1, 4, 8} and δ = 10 −5.The accountant composes the local DP list release with noisy aggregation of clipped replay summaries under Rényi DP (Mironov, 2017), using client par-ticipation rate q = 0 .30 (Appendix E). Anchor signatures, canonical matching, PSD projection, and replay sampling are post-processing. Unless stated otherwise, reported ε values refer to replay release only, not to a full deployed budget that also privatizes task-head updates. Results are averaged over five seeds and reported as mean ± standard deviation, with summary-level confidence intervals for effect-size comparisons. We report average accuracy AA =

> 1
> T

P 

> j

aT,j , backward transfer BWT = 

> 1
> T−1

P 

> j<T

(aT,j − aj,j ), and forward trans-fer FWT = 1 

> T−1

P

> j≥2

(aj−1,j − bj ), where ar,j 

is performance on task j after round r and bj is the zero-shot baseline. For NER, ar,j is entity-level micro-F1. Baselines test CSLR both as a DP-FCL method and as an anchoring mechanism. We compare with DP-SGD without replay, DP-Stat-Share (Yoon 

10 25 50 100 200 

50 

60 

> m⋆

Anchor set size m      

> Average accuracy (%)
> Figure 2: Average accuracy versus anchor set size m
> on Split-AG-News ( ε= 4 ). The dashed line marks the empirical saturation point m⋆≈50 for this encoder, anchor distribution, and task stream.

et al., 2021), FedCIL+DP (Qi et al., 2023), and non-private FedTA † (Yu et al., 2025) as an upper-bound reference. To isolate the role of anchors, we also evaluate CSLR-NoAnchor, CSLR-NearestMean, CSLR-Hungarian, and CSLR-OptimalTransport. NearestMean, Hungarian, and OT operate on shared-coordinate component parameters, making them strong anchorless baselines for cases where direct parameter matching is meaningful. 

6.2 Main Results 

Table 2 shows that CSLR improves AA by 3.9– 5.6 points over the strongest non-CSLR DP base-line at ε = 4 and remains within range of non-private FedTA on most tasks. Relative to the strongest coordinate-space matcher, CSLR-OptimalTransport, CSLR keeps a 3.0–4.0 point margin. Relative to CSLR-Hungarian, the margin is 3.6–4.5 points. Table 3 shows the same order-ing for forgetting. Effect-size CIs and FWT are in Appendix H. 

6.3 Ablation Studies 

The matcher ablation asks whether CSLR is merely better coordinate-space matching. Hungarian and OT improve over random assignment, but the resid-ual gap to CSLR is consistent. Direct matchers compare clipped noisy parameter vectors, whereas anchor signatures compare candidates in a lower-dimensional public reference space. Figure 2 shows that performance rises up to about m = 50 anchors and then saturates. This is an empirical saturation point for the chosen en-coder, anchor distribution, and task stream, not a direct numerical consequence of Theorem 2. Ap-pendix H reports matching signature-margin diag-nostics. 7Table 2: Final average task metric after all tasks, mean ± standard deviation over five seeds. Accuracy is reported for AG-News, Amazon, and MultiWOZ; entity-level micro-F1 is reported for OntoNotes.                                                                                                                 

> Method AG-News Amazon OntoNotes MultiWOZ DP-SGD (no replay) 51 .6±0.542 .0±0.637 .7±0.744 .2±0.6
> DP-Stat-Share 57 .4±0.448 .6±0.543 .0±0.549 .9±0.4
> FedCIL + DP 55 .0±0.646 .2±0.740 .6±0.847 .4±0.6
> FedTA †63 .5±0.356 .4±0.450 .8±0.356 .0±0.4
> CSLR-NoAnchor (Random) 54 .2±0.744 .5±0.840 .3±0.946 .6±0.7
> CSLR-NearestMean 56 .8±0.547 .1±0.642 .4±0.648 .9±0.5
> CSLR-Hungarian 58 .1±0.449 .3±0.544 .1±0.550 .2±0.4
> CSLR-OptimalTransport 58 .5±0.449 .8±0.444 .7±0.550 .8±0.4
> CSLR (ours) 62 .1±0.353 .8±0.448 .6±0.453 .8±0.3

Table 3: Backward transfer (BWT, %; closer to zero is better) at ε = 4 across five seeds.                                                                                                     

> Method AG-News Amazon OntoNotes MultiWOZ DP-SGD (no replay) −18 .4±0.6−22 .3±0.7−24 .9±0.8−20 .6±0.6
> DP-Stat-Share −11 .2±0.4−15 .8±0.5−17 .5±0.6−15 .0±0.5
> FedCIL + DP −13 .5±0.5−18 .0±0.6−19 .3±0.7−17 .2±0.6
> CSLR-NoAnchor (Random) −14 .8±0.7−19 .5±0.8−20 .7±0.9−17 .7±0.7
> CSLR-NearestMean −11 .9±0.5−16 .2±0.6−17 .9±0.6−15 .4±0.5
> CSLR-Hungarian −10 .1±0.4−14 .0±0.5−15 .6±0.5−13 .1±0.4
> CSLR-OptimalTransport −9.6±0.4−13 .5±0.4−15 .1±0.5−12 .6±0.4
> CSLR (ours) −7.1±0.3−10 .6±0.4−12 .0±0.4−9.9±0.3

Table 4 reports privacy–utility trends under the privacy scope used by each method. The replay-based methods are compared at matched replay-release budgets. DP-SGD is included as an optimizer-private no-replay reference, but its ε is not directly budget-equivalent to the replay-release 

ε used for CSLR, DP-Stat-Share, and FedCIL+DP. End-to-end private deployment would require com-posing the replay-release accountant with a private optimizer for communicated task-head updates. 

6.4 Qualitative Analysis 

The matcher ablation in Table 2 suggests that canonical anchor signatures provide more reliable cross-client alignment than uncanonicalized client-local orderings. 

7 Discussion and Conclusion 

We introduced Canonicalized Stable-List Replay, a replay-release mechanism for private federated continual learning of language-model heads over frozen representations. CSLR uses stable private lists because, in some mixture settings, releasing a small set of candidate replay distributions can be easier than privately selecting one final estimate (Afzali et al., 2025). Anchor canonicalization then makes these unordered client lists comparable, re-solving the permutation ambiguity that otherwise prevents meaningful cross-client aggregation. The anchors are shared reference points in em-bedding space, not additional replay data. They may come from public sentences, synthetic pub-lic embeddings, or fixed random projections, as long as the anchor set is fixed before private re-lease. After the DP list learner releases candidate distributions, anchor signatures, matching, simplex projection of mixture weights, PSD projection, and replay sampling are all post-processing and add no replay-release privacy cost. CSLR is limited by its frozen-encoder assump-tion, by the expressiveness of Gaussian replay com-ponents, and by the scope of the non-identifiability result, which applies to an unordered-label oracle model rather than all realistic matching pipelines. Shared-coordinate anchorless matchers therefore remain important baselines, as reflected in our nearest-mean, Hungarian, and optimal-transport comparisons. Overall, CSLR shows that stable pri-vate lists, anchor-based canonicalization, and DP aggregation can improve retention under replay-release user-level DP, while end-to-end private de-ployment still requires composition with a private optimizer for communicated task-head updates. Richer replay families and encoder-update regimes are natural directions for future work. 8Limitations 

Our approach assumes a high-quality frozen pre-trained sentence encoder; for languages or do-mains where such encoders are unavailable, the embedding-space density modeling may perform poorly. The non-identifiability result is proven only for the abstract unlabeled-oracle model, and ex-tending the analysis to broader distribution classes and realistic matching pipelines remains open. Be-cause the framing operates over frozen represen-tations, adaptation targets downstream classifica-tion or extraction heads rather than full-parameter fine-tuning; if representation shifts are neces-sary, embeddings warp sequentially, breaking base-line structural metrics and requiring regular re-anchoring strategies. User-level DP with small 

ε remains challenging, and our improvements still show notable gaps to non-private references. Fi-nally, the formal privacy guarantee in Theorem 4 covers the replay-release mechanism: local pri-vate list construction, noisy aggregation of replay summaries, and post-processing into a replay gen-erator. It does not by itself cover communicated task-head updates. A deployed end-to-end private FCL system must therefore combine CSLR with a private optimizer for model updates, secure ag-gregation, and communication-channel protections, with the final privacy budget obtained by compos-ing all privacy-consuming components. 

Ethical Considerations 

This work addresses privacy-preserving federated continual learning of language-model heads over frozen representations. CSLR is designed to reduce the need for raw-text replay by releasing private replay distributions and target summaries under a replay-release DP accountant. The formal privacy guarantee applies to that replay-release mechanism specifically. End-to-end privacy in deployment ad-ditionally requires private model-update training, secure aggregation, and communication-channel protections. Anchor sentences should be drawn from corpora licensed for the intended use, and operators should verify that public anchors do not encode sensitive or systematically biased attributes that could shift downstream representations in un-intended ways. 

References 

Martin Abadi, Andy Chu, Ian Goodfellow, H. Bren-dan McMahan, Ilya Mironov, Kunal Talwar, and Li Zhang. 2016. Deep learning with differential pri-vacy. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Con-ference on Computer and Communications Security .Mohammad Afzali, Hassan Ashtiani, and Christopher Liaw. 2025. Agnostic private density estimation for GMMs via list global stability. In Proceedings of The 36th International Conference on Algorithmic Learn-ing Theory , volume 272 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 41–66. PMLR. Sara Babakniya, Zalan Fabian, Chaoyang He, Mahdi Soltanolkotabi, and Salman Avestimehr. 2023. Adata-free approach to mitigate catastrophic forgetting in federated class incremental learning for vision tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .Haonan Duan, Adam Dziedzic, Nicolas Papernot, and Franziska Boenisch. 2023. Flocks of stochastic par-rots: Differentially private prompt learning for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15594 .Badih Ghazi, Ravi Kumar, and Pasin Manurangsi. 2021. User-level private learning via correlated sampling. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-tems , volume 34, pages 20172–20184. Qinbin Li, Bingsheng He, and Dawn Song. 2021. Model-contrastive federated learning. In Proceed-ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-sion and Pattern Recognition , pages 10713–10722. Xuechen Li, Florian Tramèr, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. 2022. Large language models can be strong differentially private learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.05679 .Yichen Li, Weiying Xie, Guoqing Wang, and Yun-song Li. 2025. Federated continual learning: Con-cepts, challenges, and solutions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07059 .Jinglin Liang, Jin Zhong, Hanlin Gu, Zhongqi Lu, Xingxing Tang, Gang Dai, Shuangping Huang, Lixin Fan, and Qiang Yang. 2024. Diffusion-driven data replay: A novel approach to combat forgetting in federated class continual learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01128 .Lingjuan Lyu, Xuanli He, Yitong Li, Kim-Kwang Ray-mond Choo, and Haibo Hu. 2020. Differentially private representation for NLP: Formal guarantee and an empirical study on privacy and fairness. In 

Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics: EMNLP .H. Brendan McMahan, Daniel Ramage, Kunal Talwar, and Li Zhang. 2018. Learning differentially private recurrent language models. In International Confer-ence on Learning Representations .

9Yongsheng Mei, Liangqi Yuan, Dong-Jun Han, Kevin S. Chan, Christopher G. Brinton, and Tian Lan. 2024. Using diffusion models as generative replay in con-tinual federated learning – what will happen? arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.06618 .Yongsheng Mei, Linfeng Zhao, Wei Liu, Efstathios Bakolas, and Alexandros G. Dimakis. 2025. Accu-rate forgetting for heterogeneous federated continual learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14205 .Ilya Mironov. 2017. Rényi differential privacy. In Pro-ceedings of the 30th IEEE Computer Security Foun-dations Symposium , pages 263–275. Junyan Ouyang, Rui Han, and Chi Harold Liu. 2023. Evaluating differential privacy in federated continual learning. In 2023 IEEE 98th Vehicular Technology Conference, VTC 2023-Fall - Proceedings , IEEE Ve-hicular Technology Conference. IEEE. Mansheej Paul, Surya Ganguli, and Gintare Karolina Dziugaite. 2021. Deep learning on a data diet: Find-ing important examples early in training. In Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,volume 34, pages 20596–20607. Hongming Piao, Yichen Wu, Dapeng Wu, and Ying Wei. 2024. Federated continual learning via prompt-based dual knowledge transfer. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning ,volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 40725–40739. PMLR. Daiqing Qi, Handong Zhao, and Sheng Li. 2023. Better generative replay for continual federated learning. In 

International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using siamese BERT-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .David Rolnick, Arun Ahuja, Jonathan Schwarz, Timo-thy Lillicrap, and Gregory Wayne. 2019. Experience replay for continual learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .Yue Tan, Guodong Long, Jie Ma, Lu Liu, Tianyi Zhou, and Jing Jiang. 2022. FedProto: Federated proto-type learning across heterogeneous clients. In Pro-ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence .Jaehong Yoon, Wonyong Jeong, Giwoong Lee, Eunho Yang, and Sung Ju Hwang. 2021. Federated contin-ual learning with weighted inter-client transfer. In 

Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning , volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 12073–12086. PMLR. Hao Yu, Xin Yang, Le Zhang, Hanlin Gu, Tianrui Li, Lixin Fan, and Qiang Yang. 2025. Addressing spatial-temporal data heterogeneity in federated con-tinual learning via tail anchor. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition .Xiang Yue, Huseyin A. Inan, Xuechen Li, Girish Kumar, Julia McAnallen, Huan Sun, David Levitan, Robert Sim, and Salil Vadhan. 2023. Synthetic text genera-tion with differential privacy: A simple and practical recipe. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.14348 .

A Full Proof of Theorem 2 

Proof. Fix a pair (q, q ′) that should receive differ-ent canonical IDs. By Definition 1, the event 

Eq,q ′ = {u : | log q(u) − log q′(u)| ≥ γ} (12) has anchor probability at least p. Since anchors are drawn independently from ρ, the probability that no anchor lands in Eq,q ′ is 

Pr[ ∀j, ϕ (aj ) /∈ Eq,q ′ ] ≤ (1 − p)m ≤ exp( −pm ).

(13) Let P be the set of all distinguishable pairs among the N candidate list elements. Since |P| ≤ N 2/2,the probability that any distinguishable pair is missed is at most |P| e−pm ≤ N 2 

> 2

e−pm . If m ≥

p−1 log( N 2/η ), this failure probability is at most 

η. On the complement of this failure event, every pair that should be separated differs by at least γ in at least one signature coordinate, and any noiseless matching rule that separates signatures at threshold 

γ/ 2 cannot merge two different canonical groups. This proves the theorem. 

B Proof of Proposition 3 

Proof. The server’s observation is invariant to re-labeling by any permutation in SK . More pre-cisely, for any client i and any two permutations 

σ, σ ′ ∈ SK , applying σ or σ′ to the client’s local symbols yields the same unordered multiset ob-served by the server. No deterministic function of that observation can therefore distinguish which of the K! global alignments is the correct one. An algorithm that maintains correctness for all possi-ble alignments must represent all K! hypotheses; if instead it selects one alignment, then under the uniform prior over SK it is correct with probabil-ity 1/K ! and incorrect otherwise. Since the loss is label-sensitive and every incorrect target assign-ment incurs at least c, the expected replay-target error is at least c(1 − 1/K !) . Any procedure that does better must use information excluded from the 10 oracle model: shared-coordinate parameters, pub-lic anchors, validation data, or a common random seed. 

C Proof of Theorem 4 

Proof. The replay-release mechanism is the adap-tive composition of the local list-release mecha-nism and the server aggregation mechanism. By assumption, the local list learner at round t satis-fies Rényi DP cost εlist  

> t

(α). For the aggregation step, each clipped query is released with a Gaus-sian mechanism. A clipped vector-valued query with sensitivity S and Gaussian noise N (0 , σ 2S2I)

satisfies Rényi DP of order α > 1 with cost 

α/ (2 σ2) (Mironov, 2017). Applying this bound to the mean, second-moment, mixture-weight, and replay-target releases and adding the costs gives 

εagg  

> t

(α). Sequential composition within the round gives εreplay  

> t

(α) ≤ εlist  

> t

(α) + εagg  

> t

(α), and adap-tive composition across rounds gives εreplay 1: T (α) ≤

P 

> t

εreplay  

> t

(α). The standard conversion from RDP to approximate DP yields (ε, δ ) with ε =

εreplay 1: T (α) + log(1 /δ )/(α − 1) for each fixed α,and minimizing over α > 1 gives the stated expres-sion. Anchor matching, canonical assignment, PSD projection, and replay sampling are deterministic or randomized functions of released DP objects, so they are post-processing and do not increase privacy loss. 

D Proof of Theorem 5 

Proof. Fix a past task t. Let 

LQ(θ) = E(z,y )∼Q[ℓ(θ; z, y )] 

denote the replay loss under distribution Q. Be-cause ℓ is bounded in [0 , 1] and TV( Qt, Q ⋆t ) ≤ αt,the variational characterization of total variation gives, for every θ,

LQt (θ) − L Q⋆t (θ) ≤ αt. (14) Therefore, for any two parameter values θ and θ′,

LQ⋆t (θ) − L Q⋆t (θ′) ≤ L Qt (θ) − L Qt (θ′) + 2 αt.

(15) Let bQt be the empirical replay distribution formed from nr samples from Qt. By the assumed uniform estimation bound for the replay-loss class, 

sup 

> θ

LQt (θ) − L bQt (θ) ≤ O

r dnr

!

(16) with the stated probability. Hence, for any θ, θ ′,

LQt (θ)−L Qt (θ′) ≤ L bQt (θ)−L bQt (θ′)+ O

r dnr

!

.

(17) By the replay optimization-error assumption, the replay-augmented training procedure produces θT

such that its empirical replay loss on past-task re-play is within ξt of the comparator θt:

L bQt (θT ) − L bQt (θt) ≤ ξt. (18) Combining (15) , (17) , and (18) with θ = θT and 

θ′ = θt yields 

LQ⋆t (θT ) − L Q⋆t (θt) ≤ O αt +

r dnr

+ ξt

!

.

(19) The assumed risk-control condition then gives 

Rt(θT )−Rt(θt) ≤ O αt +

r dnr

+ ξt + C−1/2min 

!

.

(20) Averaging this inequality over t = 1 , . . . , T gives 

¯FT = 1

T

> T

X

> t=1

 Rt(θT )−Rt(θt) ≤ O ¯α +

r dnr

+ ¯ξ + C−1/2min 

!

,

(21) where ¯α = T −1 P 

> t

αt and ¯ξ = T −1 P 

> t

ξt. This proves the claim. 

E Privacy-Accountant Details 

Table 5 reports the replay-release accountant used for the reported privacy budgets. The accountant includes both privacy-consuming replay-release stages: the local DP list learner and the noisy ag-gregation of clipped canonical replay summaries. All component means, second moments, mixture weights, and replay-target summaries are clipped before release or aggregation. The listed noise multipliers are calibrated by Rényi DP composi-tion (Mironov, 2017) under client participation rate 

q = 0 .30 and target δ = 10 −5. Deterministic anchor-signature computation, canonical match-ing, PSD projection, and replay sampling are post-processing of released private objects and therefore incur no additional privacy loss. For a deployed end-to-end system, these replay-release costs must be composed with the privacy cost of the optimizer used to communicate task-head updates. 11 Table 4: Split-AG-News privacy–utility comparison under distinct privacy scopes. For replay-based methods, reported ε denotes the replay-release budget only: local replay-summary release plus noisy replay-summary aggregation. For DP-SGD, reported ε denotes the optimizer-update budget, since no replay object is released. Thus DP-SGD is an optimizer-private reference, not a budget-equivalent replay-release baseline. All values are average accuracy (%), mean ± standard deviation over five seeds; δ = 10 −5.                                                          

> Method Privacy scope of reported εReplay release privatized? Task-head updates privatized? ε= 1 ε= 4 ε= 8
> DP-SGD (no replay) Optimizer-update DP only No Yes 43 .4±0.651 .6±0.556 .1±0.5
> DP-Stat-Share Replay-release DP only Yes No 48 .6±0.457 .4±0.460 .8±0.4
> FedCIL + DP Replay-release DP only Yes No 46 .1±0.555 .0±0.658 .5±0.5
> CSLR Replay-release DP only Yes No 54 .5±0.462 .1±0.364 .4±0.3

Table 5: Replay-release privacy-accounting settings used for the reported privacy budgets. Noise multipliers are calibrated by RDP composition with client participa-tion rate q = 0 .30 and δ = 10 −5. Clipping radii apply to component means, second moments, mixture weights, and target summaries before secure aggregation.                        

> Target ε148
> δ10 −510 −510 −5
> Client sampling q0.30 0.30 0.30
> Bμ, B M, B π, B y1.0 1.0 1.0 Noise multiplier σ3.20 1.45 0.95 RDP orders searched {2,3, . . . , 64 }

F Experimental Details 

The sentence encoder is all-MiniLM-L6-v2 (384-dim, frozen), and the task head is a 2-layer MLP (384 → 128 → C) with ReLU activations. The list size is L = 4 and the number of canonical modes 

K is set to the number of tasks. The anchor set size is m = 100 Wikipedia sentences. The replay-release DP mechanism composes the local DP list learner with Gaussian mechanisms for noisy canon-ical aggregation, analyzed by Rényi DP accounting with δ = 10 −5. Each round uses nr = 500 replay samples, learning rate 3 × 10 −4 with Adam, 50 rounds per task and 50 T rounds total, and a client participation rate of 30% per round. The five independent seeds are 13, 17, 19, 23, and 29. Dataset indices, client partitions, an-chor dictionaries, model initializations, and client-sampling schedules are all generated determinis-tically from these seed IDs. The reference dictio-nary uses static Wikipedia sentences extracted once per seed and then held fixed across all methods within that seed. Nearest-mean matching, Hungar-ian matching, and optimal-transport matching all operate directly over the privacy-modified paramet-ric summaries. The anonymous experiment artifact is organized around these seed IDs and contains raw per-seed traces, configuration files, and table-generation scripts for regenerating the main tables. Each client fits candidate components in the frozen embedding space after clipping embeddings to ra-dius Bz . The local primitive is a private list learner, instantiated here by repeated clipped EM initializa-tions followed by noisy sufficient-statistic release. Candidates with mixture weight below πmin are retained in the local list but downweighted during server aggregation rather than discarded, which avoids data-dependent list-size leakage. For OntoNotes-Domain, token embeddings are grouped by predicted or gold entity class during local training, and replay samples are token-level embeddings paired with clipped BIO tag-frequency targets. During evaluation, the task head decodes BIO tags under a deterministic transition mask that prevents invalid I-tags after O or incompatible en-tity types. The reported NER performance is entity-level micro-F1. For the OT baseline, each round solves 

min   

> P∈Π( w, ¯w)

X

> ℓ,k

Pℓk cℓk + λOT 

X

> ℓ,k

Pℓk log Pℓk , (22) with ground cost cℓk = ∥μℓ − ¯μk∥22 + τ ∥Σℓ −

¯Σk∥2 

> F

. We convert the resulting coupling to a hard assignment by choosing the maximum-coupling global mode for each local component, with ties resolved deterministically by mode index. 

G Statistical Reporting 

For the AA comparison in Table 6, we use the reported means ¯x, ¯y and standard deviations sx, s y

over n = 5 seeds. The displayed interval for ∆ = ¯x − ¯y uses 

∆ ± t0.975 ,4

s

s2

> x

5 + s2

> y

5 , (23) with t0.975 ,4 = 2 .776 . This is a summary-level interval and is conservative relative to a paired-seed interval when methods share the same partitions and client-sampling schedules. The artifact traces 12 Table 6: Effect-size summary for final AA at ε = 4 .Intervals are approximate 95% confidence intervals for the mean difference, computed from the reported five-seed standard deviations using Welch-style standard errors. Positive intervals indicate CSLR improves over the comparator. 

Dataset Comparator ∆ AA 95% CI AG-News DP-Stat-Share 4.7 [4 .1, 5.3] 

Amazon DP-Stat-Share 5.2 [4 .4, 6.0] 

OntoNotes DP-Stat-Share 5.6 [4 .8, 6.4] 

MultiWOZ DP-Stat-Share 3.9 [3 .3, 4.5] 

AG-News CSLR-OT 3.6 [3 .0, 4.2] 

Amazon CSLR-OT 4.0 [3 .3, 4.7] 

OntoNotes CSLR-OT 3.9 [3 .1, 4.7] 

MultiWOZ CSLR-OT 3.0 [2 .4, 3.6] 

Table 7: Forward transfer (FWT, %; higher is better), mean ± standard deviation over five seeds at ε = 4 .                        

> Method AG-News Amazon OntoNotes MultiWOZ DP-SGD 0.2±0.10.1±0.10.3±0.10.2±0.1
> DP-Stat-Share 1.4±0.21.1±0.21.6±0.31.3±0.2
> FedCIL+DP 0.8±0.20.6±0.10.9±0.20.7±0.2
> CSLR-OT 1.8±0.31.5±0.21.9±0.31.6±0.2
> CSLR 2.5±0.22.1±0.32.8±0.22.4±0.2

should be used for paired bootstrap or paired t-tests when the anonymous artifact is evaluated. 

H Additional Empirical Results 

This section collects the auxiliary tables referenced from the main body. Table 6 reports AA confidence intervals. Table 7 reports forward transfer at ε =4 across five seeds; it confirms that the relative ordering by FWT is consistent with the AA and BWT orderings reported in the main tables. Table 8 reports the anchor diagnostic on Split-AG-News supporting the saturation observed in Figure 2: the empirical hit rate ˆpγ and the minimum pairwise signature margin both plateau in the same regime as the accuracy curve. Table 9 reports the list-size ablation referenced from the ablation studies. 

Table 8: Anchor diagnostic on Split-AG-News at ε = 4 .The estimated hit rate ˆpγ is the fraction of sampled anchors with signature separation at least γ for pairs assigned to different canonical modes. 

m 10 25 50 100 200 

ˆpγ 0.18 0.31 0.43 0.46 0.47 Min. margin 0.07 0.11 0.18 0.19 0.20 

Table 9: List-size ablation on Split-AG-News at ε = 4 ,mean ± standard deviation over five seeds.                

> L124816 AA 57 .4±0.460 .2±0.462 .1±0.362 .4±0.362 .5±0.4
> BWT −11 .2±0.4−8.9±0.4−7.1±0.3−6.9±0.3−6.8±0.4

13