Title: Implementation and Privacy Guarantees for Scalable Keyword Search on SOLID-based Decentralized Data with Granular Visibility Constraints

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.22100v1

Published Time: Mon, 27 Apr 2026 00:10:36 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# Implementation and Privacy Guarantees for Scalable Keyword Search on SOLID-based Decentralized Data with Granular Visibility Constraints 

# Mohamed Ragab 

School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton Southampton, United Kingdom ragab.mohamed@soton.ac.uk 

# Faria Ferooz 

School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton Southampton, United Kingdom f.ferooz@soton.ac.uk 

# Mohammad Bahrani 

School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton Southampton, United Kingdom m.bahrani@soton.ac.uk 

# Helen Oliver 

School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, Birkbeck, University of London London, United Kingdom h.oliver@bbk.ac.uk 

# Thanassis Tiropanis 

School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton Southampton, United Kingdom t.tiropanis@soton.ac.uk 

# Alexandra Poulovassilis 

School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, Birkbeck, University of London London, United Kingdom a.poulovassilis@bbk.ac.uk 

# Adriane Chapman 

School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton Southampton, United Kingdom adriane.chapman@soton.ac.uk 

# George Roussos 

School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, Birkbeck, University of London London, United Kingdom g.roussos@bbk.ac.uk 

## ABSTRACT 

In decentralized personal data ecosystems grounded in architec-tures such as Solid 1 , users retain sovereignty over their data via personal online data stores (pods), hosted on Solid-compliant server infrastructures. In such environments, data remains under the control of pod owners, which complicates search due to distri-bution across numerous pods and user-specific access constraints. ESPRESSO is a decentralized framework for scalable keyword-based search across distributed Solid pods under user-defined visibility policies. It addresses key challenges of decentralized search by constructing WebID-scoped indexes within pods and employing privacy-aware metadata to enable efficient source selection and ranking across servers. This paper further introduces a formal threat model for ESPRESSO, analysing the security and privacy risks as-sociated with the generation, aggregation, and use of indexes and metadata. These risks include unintended metadata leakage and the potential for adversaries to infer sensitive information about data that reside within personal data stores. The analysis identifies key design principles that limit metadata exposure while mitigating unauthorized inference. The proposed threat model provides a foun-dation for evaluating privacy-preserving decentralized search and informs the design of systems with stronger privacy guarantees. 

> 1https://solidproject.org/ This work is licensed under the Creative Commons BY-NC-ND 4.0 International License. Visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ to view a copy of this license. Copyright is held by the owner/author(s).

## 1 INTRODUCTION 

In decentralized personal data ecosystems [ 1, 6 ] built on frame-works such as Solid [ 12 , 13 ], users maintain ownership and control over their data through personal online data stores (pods), which are hosted on Solid-compliant servers [ 5, 14 ]. These pods are protected by access control policies tied to WebID-based authentication 2,allowing fine-grained permissions on what data can be accessed and by whom. ESPRESSO 3 [ 8] presents a decentralized search architecture that enables secure, keyword-based querying across distributed pods without centralizing user data. Queries return only references (i.e., resource URLs) to resources within pods that the querying WebID is authorized to access. ESPRESSO ensures that nei-ther raw resources nor search metadata are leaked to unauthorized parties during search [ 2, 9 – 11 ]. However, enabling search func-tionality over private and distributed data introduces new privacy challenges [ 3 , 4 ]: adversaries may attempt to infer sensitive informa-tion from access patterns, index structures, or result statistics, even when access control is respected for the files themselves. To this end, this paper defines the threat model for ESPRESSO, in which we characterize the types of adversaries considered, describe their capabilities and goals, outline system assumptions, and present the privacy guarantees our system provides to defend against them. This paper is structured are as follows. Section 2 provides an overview of the ESPRESSO environment and describes the data storage model and data visibility constraints that shape the decen-tralized search and recommendation [ 7 ]. Section 3 describes how search is carried out in ESPRESSO, including architecture, metadata 

> 2Solid Protocol Authentication: https://solidproject.org/TR/protocol#authentication
> 3https://espressoproject.org/
> arXiv:2604.22100v1 [cs.DB] 23 Apr 2026

generation and management for source selection and ranking. The workflow of ESPRESSO including indexing, pod registration for search, metadata management and query processing is presented in Section 4. Section 5 presents the threat model, analyzes potential privacy and security risks and discusses design implications. Sec-tion 6 describe the scope and limitations and Section 7 concludes the paper. 

## 2 ESPRESSO OVERVIEW AND SCOPE 

Before we delve into the trust assumptions and the details of our threat model, we first introduce the ESPRESSO framework, its in-frastructure, and main components. ESPRESSO focuses on enabling efficient discovery of resources that are both relevant to a search party’s query and permitted under their access rights. A search party may be a human user or an automated agent or bot. ESPRESSO is deployed within the Solid ecosystem, where users store data in personal online data stores (or pods) hosted on Solid-compliant 4

servers. Each pod enforces access control using the Web Access Control (WAC) specification 5 and associates permissions with au-thenticated WebIDs. 

## 2.1 Data Stores and Data Visibility scopes 

In ESPRESSO, each Data Store (Solid pod) 𝑃 𝑖 is owned by a data owner 𝑂 𝑖 and contains Resources 𝑅 𝑖 = {𝑟 𝑖 1, . . . , 𝑟 𝑖𝑛 𝑖 }. Each item has a simple access control policy specifying which search parties (identified by Universal Unique Identifiers (UUIDs)), also known as 

WebIDs , can access it. These access specifications define a visibility scope V𝑖 (𝑈 ), representing the subset of 𝑃 𝑖 ’s resources visible to a given search party 𝑈 .For example, if 𝑃 1 contains {𝑟 1, 𝑟 2, 𝑟 3 } with access rules: 𝑟 1 is visible to UUID 1, 𝑟 2 to UUID 2, 𝑟 3 to UUID 1 and UUID 3, then UUID 1

can access {𝑟 1, 𝑟 3 } and UUID 2 can access {𝑟 2 }, while UUID 4 can view nothing. Extending this across multiple data stores, the global visibility of a search party 𝑈 is the union of its visibility scopes across a specific number (n) of data stores (i.e., 𝑉 (𝑈 ) = Ð𝑛 𝑖 =1 V𝑖 (𝑈 )). ESPRESSO leverages this infrastructure to determine visibility scopes and to enforce that all search operations are scoped to the user’s permissions and conducted without moving raw data out of the pods. 

## 3 SEARCH WITHIN ESPRESSO 

Given a keyword-based query 𝑄 from a search party 𝑈 , the goal of ESPRESSO is to retrieve matching resources across distributed data stores {𝑃 1, . . . , 𝑃 𝑛 } while enforcing their data visibility con-straints V ( 𝑈 ) over those stores. For a multi-keyword query 𝑄 =

{𝑘𝑤𝑑 1, . . . , 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑚 }, the result set is: 

R ( 𝑄, 𝑈 ) =

> 𝑛

Ø

> 𝑖 =1

{𝑟 ∈ 𝑅 𝑖 | 𝑟 contains 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑗 ∀ 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑗 ∈ 𝑄, 𝑑 ∈ V 𝑖 (𝑈 )} 

ESPRESSO aims to balance retrieval performance with privacy guarantees (please see Section 5.2). It ensures that query execution 

> 4Solid Protocol: Draft Community Group Report, 23 April 2026 https://solidproject. org/TR/protocol, last accessed 23 April 2026
> 5Web Access Control: Draft Community Group Report, 23 April 2026 https:// solidproject.org/TR/wac, last accessed 23 April 2026

Figure 1: Our Motivating Search Scenario 

respects a search party’s access boundaries: an unauthorized search party’s visibility scope excludes restricted data, so it cannot view it; likewise, an authorized search party’s queries are evaluated only over the data within its visibility scope, and cannot reach beyond it. 

Motivating Scenario . To make our approach more concrete, Figure 1 depicts a hypothetical healthcare scenario inspired by the organizational structure of the United Kingdom’s healthcare ecosystem. In this scenario, we assume a Solid -based environment in which individuals store their medical data in NHS-hosted pods. Patients may upload their medical histories into these pods, in-cluding General Practitioner ( GP ) notes, hospital visit summaries, and related clinical documentation. Consider Alice, a medical re-searcher seeking to identify potential participants for an authorized early-stage clinical study involving a novel therapeutic intervention. Alice aims to search patient records to identify suitable candidates. To do so, Alice must first obtain permission from individuals to access their pods and, consequently, the medical data contained therein. She intends to issue keyword-based queries describing rare conditions or specific medications across the pods of those who have granted her access. This scenario necessitates addressing three central questions: 

• How to enable search that is both efficient and of high quality (ranking) despite varying granular access constraints and the need to operate across multiple infrastructural layers, ranging from text resources to pods to servers? 

• How can decentralized indexing enable authorized search parties, like Alice, to undertake privacy-preserving keyword searches across large numbers of data stores with heteroge-neous access control constraints? 

• How can search efficiency scale with growing decentralized data ecosystems while preserving privacy? For instance, how efficient would Alice’s search be across hundreds of thousands of patient data stores in a metropolitan area? 

To enable this workflow, individuals must first approve Alice’s access request by adding her WebID to the Access Control Lists associated with the medical records they intend to share. Once authorised, Alice may use her WebID to execute searches across the pods to which access has been granted, allowing her to iden-tify individuals whose records contain the targeted conditions or 

> 2

Figure 2: ESPRESSO Framework Architecture 

medications. Moreover, individuals who have chosen to make their contact details accessible to Alice’s WebID can subsequently be approached directly, enabling Alice to invite them to participate in the clinical trial. 

## 3.1 ESPRESSO Infrastructure and Components 

The ESPRESSO architecture (Figure 2) comprises the following components: 

• Indexing App: This is a Solid-compliant app which creates search-party-scoped indexes based on pod content that the search party is allowed to access and contributes metadata for aggregation into Server-level metadata, acting on behalf of and with the credentials of the pod owner; 

• Search App: This is another Solid-compliant app which verifies search party’s credentials and answers their queries by consulting the appropriate scoped index on behalf of and with the credentials of a search party and of the ESPRESSO system; 

• A Metadata Manager , a component responsible for main-taining and updating metadata used for source selection and decentralized results ranking by processing and aggre-gating metadata contributed by the indexing app of pod owners. It acts on behalf of and with the credentials of the ESPRESSO system. 

• Overlay Network ESPRESSO also utilizes an Overlay Net-work in order to connect and catalogue multiple Solid servers, building up a community of connected servers. Specifically, we utilize GaianDB 6, as a federated storage layer for metadata about the Solid servers. ESPRESSO uses 

Logical Tables that works as an abstract federation layer 

> 6Choosing IBM GaianDB (https://github.com/gaiandb/gaiandb) is an implementation choice rather than a requirement of the framework: in principle, the same metadata could also be maintained in a centralized store or a blockchain-based layer.

within the GaianDB network, integrating data from differ-ent Solid servers. In this sense, GaianDB is not a mere P2P overlay network; it also serves as a distributed data federa-tion platform that enables data to be stored and retrieved from multiple locations, adhering to the principle of Store Locally and Query Anywhere .

3.1.1 Decentralized Indexing . ESPRESSO provides an Indexing App that maintains local inverted indexes within each Solid pod. Unlike traditional search systems, ESPRESSO does not aggregate indexes in a centralized location. Instead, the Indexing app gener-ates and maintains search party-specific index files within each pod. Each search party (identified by a WebID , which is the UUID in the Web and Solid contexts) has a dedicated index file that con-tains reference only to the data they have been granted the right to access. In particular, each WebID-specific index file contains an inverted index for the keywords/terms appearing in the resources accessible to that WebID within this pod. In addition, a separate index file is created for all the resources within the pod that have been designated by its owner as being "publicly accessible". This ensures that each search party retrieves results only comprising resources they have explicit access to, enforcing data access rights. Metadata generation and indexing are not one-off operations. In practice, both pod-level indexes, the derived server-level and system-level metadata must be maintained and updated over time to reflect changes in pod contents, resource deletions, newly added resources, and modifications to access control constraints. In the current ESPRESSO prototype, this maintenance is not yet fully automated; however, any practical deployment of ESPRESSO would require periodic or event-driven re-indexing and metadata refresh to preserve both retrieval correctness and privacy guarantees. A further practical dependency is that indexing requires appro-priate authorization in addition to resource-level sharing. If a pod owner grants a search party access to a resource but does not grant 

> 3

the ESPRESSO Indexing App sufficient permission to read that re-source and update the corresponding index and metadata profile, then that resource may remain undiscoverable through ESPRESSO even though its underlying document permissions would otherwise allow access. Thus, searchable participation in ESPRESSO requires not only granting access by data owners to other parties at the resource level, but also the pod owner’s explicit cooperation in enabling indexing and metadata maintenance. 

3.1.2 Source Selection Metadata Generation . In ESPRESSO, metadata generation occurs in two phases: the Indexing App and the Metadata Manager. During the Indexing stage, the Indexing App, crawls text resources within each pod and also checks the Access Control List (ACL) associated with each resource (subject to the pod owner’s permission). Based on accessible content, it creates WebID-specific inverted indexes for resources to which a WebID has been added specifically to an ACL along with a public index for openly accessible data within each pod. The indexes contain keywords and references to the corresponding resource (URLs). As part of the same process, the Indexing App creates a metadata profile summarizing the content of each indexed pod. The Indexing App then stores this metadata profile in the ESPRESSO pod on the hosting server, which serves as a central location for maintaining the metadata associated with all the pods hosted on this server. When a pod is registered for search, the pod owner grants the Search App WebID permission to access the metadata profile asso-ciated with the pod. This permission applies only to the metadata profile stored by the Indexing App in the ESPRESSO pod on the host-ing server, not the related pod resources. The envisaged Metadata Manager uses the same Search App WebID to access the meta-data profile. It periodically retrieves these stored metadata profiles from ESPRESSO pod and aggregates them to form the higher-level metadata structures, at the server level and at the system (overlay network) level. On each server, this process results in Server-Level metadata that captures keywords, pod URLs, and Server-Level sta-tistics. This derived metadata is stored inside the ESPRESSO Pod. At the overlay network level, the System-Level metadata includes key-words, server addresses, and network-level statistics. The metadata is maintained in a WebID-scoped manner at both the Server-Level and the System-Level: for each search party, ESPRESSO derives metadata only from the resources that are visible to that WebID and keeps the resulting metadata logically separated from that of other WebIDs. The Search App later uses this metadata to identify relevant servers and pods during query processing. 

3.1.3 Source Selection Metadata Structures . The Server-level and System-level metadata facilitates distributed query processing by identifying the hosting servers and associated pods most rele-vant to a given query, and accessible to the search party. It further enables ranking of these candidate sources based on their estimated relevance and the search party’s authorized visibility scope. Figure 3 illustrates the system-level and server-level metadata maintained by the Metadata Manager in support of source selection. 

• System-Level Metadata (metadata about servers host-ing data stores) : A high-level index that includes term dis-tribution statistics (e.g., term frequency , collection size ) and search party visibility (according to UUIDs) across servers. 

Figure 3: Metadata maintained for source selection. 

This metadata enables efficient query processing by identi-fying and ranking relevant servers for a query issued by a specific search party (Step 1 Figure 3). Formally, the system-level metadata is a mapping: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑁 : U → (M → R 𝑁 ),

where 

R𝑁 ≜ P ( Servers ) × Stats 𝑁 ,

and Stats 𝑁 denotes the space of overlay network-level sum-mary statistics. For each search party UUID 𝑗 ∈ U and keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 ∈ M ,we define 

𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (UUID 𝑗 )( 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 ) ≜ ⟨Srv 𝑖,𝑗 , Stats 𝑁 𝑖,𝑗 ⟩.

Here: 

– Srv 𝑖,𝑗 is the set of server addresses (URLs/IDs) that host at least one data store containing resources with keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 and that are visible to the search party identified by UUID 𝑗 .

– Stats 𝑁 𝑖,𝑗 stores aggregated network-level distribution statistics for keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 within the visibility scope of UUID 𝑗 , (e.g., number of accessible servers to UUID 𝑗 ,aggregated term-frequency summaries, aggregated collection-size summaries, etc.). If no such servers exist, then Srv 𝑖,𝑗 = ∅ and Stats 𝑁 𝑖,𝑗 is empty or zero-valued. 

Example: For 𝐾 = {𝑘𝑤𝑑 1, 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 } and 𝑈 = {UUID 1, UUID 2 },an example of 𝑀𝑆 𝑁 is: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (UUID 1) =

(

𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 ↦ → ⟨{ server1 }, Stats 𝑁 

> 1,1

⟩

𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 ↦ → ⟨{ server1 , server2 }, Stats 𝑁 

> 2,1

⟩

𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (UUID 2) =

(

𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 ↦ → ⟨∅ , 0⟩

𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 ↦ → ⟨{ server3 }, Stats 𝑁 

> 2,2

⟩

> 4

In this example, we, for simplicity, instantiate Stats 𝑁 𝑖,𝑗 with only the cardinality |Srv 𝑖,𝑗 |, but the Metadata record sup-ports any other additional/required system-level statistics. 

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 and UUID 1, there is one visible server hosting resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1: Srv 1,1 = {server1 } and 

S𝑁  

> 1,1

= 1.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 and UUID 1, there are two visible servers host-ing resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2: Srv 2,1 = {server1 , server2 }

and S𝑁  

> 2,1

= 2.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 and UUID 2, there is one visible server hosting resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2: Srv 2,2 = {server3 } and 

S𝑁  

> 2,2

= 1.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 and UUID 2, no relevant servers exist: Srv 1,2 =

∅ and S𝑁  

> 1,2

= 0.

• Server-Level Metadata (metadata about data stores hosted on a server) : Each server hosts metadata about its own pods. This includes keyword distribution, term statis-tics, and visibility scopes of search parties (UUIDs) across the hosted data stores. It ensures queries only propagate to the relevant pods hosted at that server (Step 2 Figure 3). Throughout the paper, we identify each pod (data store) by its URL. Accordingly, we use the terms pod , data store , and 

pod URL interchangeably, and represent pods directly by their URLs in all metadata structures and result sets. Similarly to system-level metadata, server-level metadata is scoped by search-party visibility. Formally, for each server, the server-level metadata is a mapping: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 : U → (M → R 𝑆 ),

where 

R𝑆 ≜ P ( Pods ) × Stats 𝑆 ,

and Pods denotes the set of pod URLs hosted on server, while Stats 𝑆 denotes the space of server-level summary statistics. For each search party UUID 𝑗 ∈ U and keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 ∈ M ,we define 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 (UUID 𝑗 )( 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 ) ≜ ⟨Pods 𝑖,𝑗 , Stats 𝑆 𝑖,𝑗 ⟩.

Here: 

– Pods 𝑖,𝑗 is the set of pod (data store) URLs hosted on server 𝑠 that contain resources with keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 

and that are visible to the search party identified by UUID 𝑗 .

– Stats 𝑆 𝑖,𝑗 stores server-level distribution statistics for keyword 𝑘𝑤𝑑 𝑖 within the visibility scope of UUID 𝑗 ,used for pod selection and ranking (e.g., number of visible pods, aggregated term-frequency summaries, collection-size summaries, etc.). If no such pods exist, then Pods 𝑖,𝑗 = ∅ and Stats 𝑆 𝑖,𝑗 is empty or zero-valued. 

Example: For 𝐾 = {𝑘𝑤𝑑 1, 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 } and 𝑈 = {UUID 1, UUID 2 },an example of 𝑀𝑆 𝑆 is: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 (UUID 1) =

(

𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 ↦ → ⟨{ dstore1 }, Stats 𝑆 

> 1,1

⟩

𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 ↦ → ⟨{ dstore2 , dstore3 }, Stats 𝑆 

> 2,1

⟩

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 (UUID 2) =

(

𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 ↦ → ⟨∅ , 0⟩

𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 ↦ → ⟨{ dstore4 }, Stats 𝑆 

> 2,2

⟩

In this example, we instantiate Stats 𝑆 𝑖,𝑗 with only the car-dinality |Pods 𝑖,𝑗 |, but similar to the system-level metadata, the record supports any Server-level statistics required. 

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 and UUID 1, there is one visible pod hosting resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1: Pods 1,1 = {dstore1 } and 

Stats 𝑆  

> 1,1

= 1.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 and UUID 1, there are two visible pods host-ing resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2: Pods 2,1 = {dstore2 , dstore3 }

and Stats 𝑆  

> 2,1

= 2.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2 and UUID 2, there is one visible pod hosting resources containing 𝑘𝑤𝑑 2: Pods 2,2 = {dstore4 } and 

Stats 𝑆  

> 2,2

= 1.

– For 𝑘𝑤𝑑 1 and UUID 2, no relevant pods exist: Pods 1,2 =

∅ and Stats 𝑆  

> 1,2

= 0.

• Probabilistic Source Selection Metadata : Source-selection metadata can leverage inverted indexes to provide precise mappings to relevant sources (servers and data stores). How-ever, our work also contrasts this representation with prob-abilistic metadata structures to evaluate their effectiveness and efficiency trade-offs during decentralized query pro-cessing. These latter techniques represent metadata at var-ious levels without exposing precise data store or server information. To achieve this, we apply a Bloom filter mecha-nism over the search party-specific metadata structures and indexes for ACL-protected resources, while publicly acces-sible resources are represented separately through shared aggregated metadata that is common to all search parties. These probabilistic structures encode potential keyword matches associated with search parties’ UUIDs while pre-venting exact reconstruction of the metadata. Additionally, since each Bloom filter is search party-specific, access is restricted to the search party possessing the corresponding UUID, thereby reinforcing query privacy. After identifying relevant servers and data stores, the system navigates only to the selected servers and queries only the selected pod indexes, aggregates results, and returns them to the search party (Step 3 Figure 3). This ensures privacy preservation while optimizing query performance. 

## 4 ESPRESSO WORKFLOW 

In this section, we provide details on how the main compo-nents of ESPRESSO work together to enable decentralized search over personal data stores distributed across multiple Solid servers. This discussion lays the groundwork for understanding how the ESPRESSO experimentation environment and its components are well-suited to supporting a decentralized search solution, as well as how different stakeholders could effectively engage with it. 

## 4.1 Pods Indexing 

The Indexing App manages the indexing of unstructured text data in pods. Figure 4 shows a sequence of interactions between the 

> 5

Figure 4: Indexing Process in ESPRESSO 

Indexing App, the owner of the pod, and the target pod. The process begins when the Indexing App initiates an authentication request through the browser interface. The pod owner logs in using their WebID credentials and authorizes the Indexing App to access the pod. After initial authorization, the Indexing App obtains an access token that allows it to perform subsequent indexing operations without requiring repeated user authentication until the token ex-pires. Once authenticated, the Indexing App accesses a well-known index directory within the pod, which is standardized across all pods participating in the ESPRESSO system. The Indexing App pro-cesses the pod’s data and creates inverted index files locally within the pod along with the metadata profile for the ESPRESSO server pod is to support keyword-based search. The indexing process is repeated independently for each pod participating in the ESPRESSO system. The generated indexes cover both publicly accessible re-sources and the resources accessible to specific Web-ID based on ACL permissions. 

Figure 5: The process of registering a Pod for Search 

## 4.2 Servers Registration for Search 

Before individual pods can participate in ESPRESSO search, the Solid server must first be prepared to host the ESPRESSO meta-data structures. This server-level registration step establishes the ESPRESSO pod on the server, which acts as a dedicated system-managed location for storing metadata associated with searchable pods hosted on that server. Concretely, the Search App WebID (or ESPRESSO system WebID) is used to create the ESPRESSO pod within the Solid server. This pod is distinct from user pods and is reserved for ESPRESSO-related metadata and coordination func-tions. Within this ESPRESSO pod, the server maintains a directory structure through which metadata associated with registered pods can be stored and accessed in a controlled manner. This step is a pre-requisite for pod-level registration, since it provides the server-side location in which pod metadata profiles will later be deposited and maintained. In this way, ESPRESSO first establishes the shared meta-data container at the server level, and only then enables individual pod owners to register their pods for participation in decentralized search. 

## 4.3 Pods Registration for Search 

After the ESPRESSO pod has been created on the Solid server, individual pod owners may register their indexed pods for search participation. Figure 5 shows a sequence of steps between the Pod Search App, the pod owner, and the Solid Server environment. The process is initiated when the pod owner submits a registra-tion request through the Search App interface. The owner then authenticates using their WebID credentials to authorize the Search App WebID to access the metadata profile associated with the pod. The pod metadata profile is stored at a well-known location in the ESPRESSO pod hierarchy based on the WebID of the pod owner. Following the authorization, the Search App obtains an access to-ken that allows it to access the ESPRESSO Pod metadata for further operations until the token expires. This token can be safely stored and reused without requiring frequent user authentication. The access control rules of the metadata profile are updated to allow it to be used by the ESPRESSO search system. Once the registration is completed, the pod can participate in decentralized search while still enforcing the access permissions set by the pod owner. 

## 4.4 Source Selection Metadata Flow 

To support the efficient search across multiple servers, ESPRESSO envisages a Metadata Manager that is responsible for maintaining the up-to-date metadata. This component is not yet implemented in the ESPRESSO experimental environment. While the generation of metadata is described earlier, this section explains how the metadata is periodically synchronized and used during the system operation. The Metadata Manager regularly retrieves metadata associated with each server pod and consolidates it so that an updated view of searchable pods can be maintained locally. This integrated metadata is stored within the ESPRESSO Pod. In addition, on each server the metadata manager shares the summary of server-level metadata with the overlay network, so that relevant servers can be identified during search. The information about the higher-level metadata is provided in the Section 3.1.3. The Metadata Manager will use the Search App’s authorized We-bID to periodically access and copy those servers’ meta-information 

> 6

from ESPRESSO Pods at each server and store the locations of the Server-Level Metadata in the logical tables of the Overlay Network. Notably, metadata maintained in the Overlay Network logical tables will not reveal any sensitive information to unauthorized parties, as the tables relate the WebIDs to the ESPRESSO Pod URLs that con-tain Server-Level Metadata information accessible to those WebIDs. The ESPRESSO Pod URLs can only be accessed by the ESPRESSO Search App WebID. 

## 4.5 Search Pipeline within the Search App. 

Search parties initiate searches through a dedicated User Interface (UI), submitting a search request (multi-keyword query) to the Search App along with a WebID. The Search App processes these requests by utilizing the Overlay Network to perform searches across Solid servers, ensuring that results include only references to resources accessible to the Search Party’s WebID. 

Figure 6: Search Process when overlay returns relevant pods 

Figure 7: Search Process when overlay returns results 

The Search App employs two primary alternative methods to utilize the support of the GaianDB network. 

• In the first approach, the Search App utilizes GaianDB as a distributed storage layer for storing the System-Level Metadata about servers, maintained across GaianDB nodes within the Overlay Network logical tables. Thus, the Over-lay Network responds by providing a curated list of relevant servers to the Search App. Subsequently, the Search App ac-cesses the Server-Level Metadata about pods, through their respective servers, to get the relevant pods. For each rele-vant pod, the Search App will access the WebID-specific Pod Index, and get the results accessible by that WebID. Thus, the Search App needs to conduct subsequent HTTP GET requests to the relevant Pod Index folders, utilizing per-missions granted to the search party WebID. This process allows the Search App to retrieve results based on the spec-ified search party WebID, facilitating efficient information retrieval across the network. 

• For the second search approach, the Search App leverages the Overlay Network to transmit both the query and the WebID to the GaianDB node. From there, the GaianDB node proceeds to distribute and propagate these requests across the Overlay Network nodes. The GaianDB Overlay Network then aggregates the results of these queries and returns them directly to the Search App user interface. This method streamlines the process of querying and retriev-ing information by centralizing the aggregation of results through the GaianDB node, enhancing efficiency in data retrieval for the Search App. 

## 5 THREAT MODEL & PRIVACY GUARANTEES 

In this section, we present the adversarial assumptions and formal privacy guarantees underpinning the decentralized search within our ESPRESSO framework. We leverage Microsoft’s threat modeling 

STRIDE framework 7. We have chosen STRIDE for its comprehen-sive approach and suitability for a distributed system consisting of multiple components of different trust levels. While STRIDE encompasses a broad spectrum of system-security concerns, we focus selectively on the threat categories that are most relevant to our setting. For each relevant threat, we describe the corresponding adversarial capabilities and explain how the design of ESPRESSO mitigates or eliminates the associated risks. More specifically, from STRIDE, we leverage only the threats most relevant to our ESPRESSO decentralized search framework, namely, 

Information Disclosure and Spoofing .(1) Information Disclosure : Information is exposed to indi-viduals not authorized to see it, i.e., sensitive data is leaked beyond the intended access boundary. (2) Spoofing : An adversary impersonates another entity, such as a user or a system component. While the remaining STRIDE categories—Tampering, Repudia-tion, and Denial of Service (DoS)—are fundamental system-security concerns, they are less central to the specific threat model addressed in ESPRESSO: (1) Tampering: ESPRESSO assumes integrity-protected storage within user-controlled pods and secure communication channels. As a result, the risk of unauthorized modification of data or metadata is minimized by underlying platform guarantees rather than by ESPRESSO’s search design itself. (2) Repudiation: ESPRESSO is designed for privacy-preserving decentralized search rather than auditability or forensic    

> 7STRIDE THREAT Modelling: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/ develop/threat-modeling-tool-threats
> 7

traceability. Since ESPRESSO does not rely on user-generated logs or non-repudiable actions for correctness, repudiation threats fall outside the core scope of our analysis. (3) Denial of Service (DoS): Although DoS is a practical concern in any distributed system, addressing availability attacks (e.g., overloaded servers or rate limiting) is largely an oper-ational and deployment-level issue. ESPRESSO’s protocol does not introduce additional DoS vulnerabilities beyond those inherent in typical web-based services, so DoS re-silience is considered orthogonal to our design goals. By narrowing our focus to Information Disclosure and Spoofing, we align our security analysis here with the primary privacy and authenticity concerns that are inherent in decentralized search over personal pods. 

## 5.1 Adversary Model 

The STRIDE threats of Information Disclosure and Spoofing moti-vate our adversary model. We distinguish between (i) the type of adversary, which captures where the adversary is located in the system, and (ii) the profile of the adversary, which captures how the adversary behaves. 

Adversary Profiles: Information Disclosure and Spoofing let us consider both honest-but-curious and malicious adversary profiles. While malicious adversaries relate to the Spoofing threat and impersonation attacks, the Honest-but-curious adversaries 

relate to Information disclosure attacks. 

• Malicious adversaries (Spoofing) Malicious adversaries may attempt to impersonate a legitimate search party by exploiting weaknesses in authentication or session manage-ment. This includes attacks such as session fixation, token replay, misuse of delegated agents or applications acting on behalf of a WebID. Such attacks aim to submit queries under an unauthorized WebID in order to access data or metadata beyond the adversary’s legitimate visibility scope. 

• Honest-but-curious adversaries Those are a direct mani-festation of the Information Disclosure threat. They are users who follow the protocol using their own authenticated We-bID but may attempt to infer additional information from query patterns, result cardinalities, or metadata structures. For instance, a clinician with access to three patients may try to estimate how many other users on the system also mention “diabetes” by analyzing Bloom filters or response sizes. 

Adversary Types: We consider the following adversary types, operating independently and without coordination or collusion: 

• Search party 𝑈 who issues queries and may attempt to learn information beyond their visibility scope 𝑉 (𝑈 ).

• Hosting servers 𝑆 𝑘 that host Solid pods, correctly enforce Access Control Policies and Web Access Control mecha-nisms (ACP/WAC) and pod-level index isolation, but may observe query execution and local metadata. 

• Overlay nodes that participate in query routing or meta-data aggregation and observe overlay-level information. In this threat model, we do not consider collusion between ad-versaries (e.g., a user and a server sharing information, or multiple users pooling access). Our guarantees are designed under the as-sumption that adversaries act individually. Extending the model to account for collusion is a direction for future work. 

Adversary Capabilities: Adversaries in our model may poten-tially observe or access the following information while following the search protocol, forming the basis for the inference attacks described above: 

• WebID-scoped Index Access: A search party 𝑈 may ac-cess the pod-level inverted indexes I𝑖 𝑗 built from their visi-bility scope 𝑉 𝑖 (𝑈 ).

• Metadata Exposure: Adversaries may inspect server-level or overlay network-level metadata, either in a deterministic way (exact counts, URLs) using inverted indexes or in a probabilistic form using Bloom filters. 

• Query Results: The set of resource references (URLs) and relevance scores returned in response to queries submitted by search parties. 

• Query Execution Side-channels: Timing information, network traffic patterns, and which servers or pods are contacted during query processing. 

Adversaries’ Goals: The adversarial goals we consider primar-ily fall under the Information Disclosure threat. While Spoofing 

(impersonation) is prevented by Solid’s authentication layer (see Section 5.3), our analysis focuses on inference attacks that remain possible after legitimate authentication. We categorize adversarial goals into two broad classes: (1) General reconstruction and auxil-iary knowledge inference , and (2) Individual-level identification or re-identification . Both classes are relevant in the context of health data and Solid pods, where seemingly innocuous metadata may be used to infer sensitive information. 

1. General Reconstruction and Inference 

These attacks aim to recover structural or statistical properties of the dataset across pods, potentially revealing sensitive population-level or organizational information. (G1) Membership Inference: Determine whether a keyword 𝑡 or a resource 𝑟 exists in a pod outside the adversary’s authorized visibility scope. In the context of dealing with sensitive data (e.g., health data), this may reveal unintended associations between users or institutions and sensitive conditions. (G2) Access Pattern Inference: Infer which pods or servers are accessed in response to a query. For example, in the case of health data, repeated observations within the search results may reveal which users, groups, or institutions are relevant to specific medical topics (e.g., repeated access during “mental health” queries). (G3) Keyword Frequency Estimation: Estimate how common cer-tain terms are across the network by analyzing metadata or approximate data structures. For example, an adversary may infer that “treatment-resistant depression” ap-pears more frequently in pods hosted by a particular hos-pital, revealing prevalence patterns or institutional focus that should remain confidential. 

> 8

(G4) Index Reconstruction: Partially or fully reconstruct keyword-to-pod mappings or inverted index structures from source-selection metadata, with the aim of gaining structural in-sight into restricted data. (G5) Indirect Inference via Correlation: Infer the presence of a pro-tected or hidden concept (e.g., mental illness ) through correlated observable terms (e.g., fatigue , withdrawal )that statistically or semantically co-occur with the hidden concept. Such attacks exploit distributional patterns rather than direct visibility and are particularly relevant under repeated or aggregate observations. 

2. Individual Identification and Re-identification 

These attacks combine public or auxiliary background knowl-edge with query results or metadata to associate sensitive informa-tion (e.g., health conditions) with specific individuals. (I1) Direct Identification: Determine whether a known individual (e.g., identified by a WebID or public profile) has a resource matching a sensitive keyword such as “diabetes” .(I2) Quasi-Identifier Re-identification: Use auxiliary attributes such as age, location, or gender to link an otherwise anony-mous or pseudonymous pod to a real-world identity and infer sensitive information. 

Example: If an attacker knows that Bob is a 34-year-old male living in Postcode SO17 and observes a pod matching these demographics that responds to a “diabetes” query, they may infer Bob’s condition. 

## 5.2 ESPRESSO Privacy Guarantees 

Privacy in ESPRESSO is achieved through the combination of baseline guarantees provided by Solid and additional privacy-preserving mechanisms introduced by the ESPRESSO architecture. While Solid governs authentication, authorization and data control at the pod level, ESPRESSO extends these foundations to enable privacy-preserving federated search without centralisation of data, indexes, or sensi-tive metadata. This section clarifies which guarantees are inherited from Solid and which are explicitly introduced by ESPRESSO. 

## 5.3 Baseline Trust and Privacy Assumptions (Solid and ESPRESSO) 

ESPRESSO builds on the security and privacy mechanisms provided by Solid, subject to explicit trust assumptions about the underlying infrastructure and server behavior. 

Solid Baseline Security Guarantees. Under Solid’s access-control framework, the following baseline properties are assumed to hold: (1) Pod Data Ownership: User data remains stored in per-sonal pods, with ownership retained by the data subject. No data leaves a pod unless permitted by its Access Control Policy (ACP/WAC). (2) Authenticated Access: Authentication is enforced using WebID, ensuring that all search actions are bound to a veri-fied digital identity. (3) Policy-Based Authorization: Access Control Policies de-termine which WebIDs are authorized to read each resource or file. (4) Application Sandboxing: Applications (i.e., Indexing App and Search App) operate only with explicitly granted per-missions and cannot access data beyond their authorized scope. 

ESPRESSO System Trust Assumptions. Building on these guaran-tees, ESPRESSO assumes the following system-level trust proper-ties: 

• Trusted Authentication: Solid servers and client libraries correctly enforce WebID-based authentication, and each query is bound to an authenticated session. ESPRESSO does not implement its own authentication or session man-agement mechanisms. Instead, the ESPRESSO Search App relies on Solid’s WebID authentication flow and associated token handling to bind each query to an authenticated identity. Consequently, the correctness of session establish-ment, token freshness, replay protection, delegated agent authorization, and revocation semantics is assumed to be provided by the underlying Solid infrastructure. 

• Correct Access Control Enforcement: Solid servers cor-rectly enforce ACP/WAC policies for all pod resources. 

• Pod Integrity: Pods are not compromised and do not leak data through unintended side channels. 

• Hosting Server Correctness Trust: Hosting servers cor-rectly authenticate WebIDs, enforce access control, and maintain pod-level index isolation as specified by the ESPRESSO protocol. Therefore, the Spoofing threats introduced by malicious adver-saries are mitigated via Solid’s authentication flow: the ESPRESSO Search App validates each query against a session-bound token that confirms WebID ownership. Impersonation attacks are thus prevented at the authentication layer. 

## 5.4 Privacy Guarantees Introduced by ESPRESSO (Architectural Layer) 

ESPRESSO builds on Solid’s privacy foundations specified earlier and introduces new guarantees that enable secure decentralized keyword search while preventing leakage of information beyond access rights. 

(PG1) Visibility/Access Scope Isolation . ESPRESSO defines visibility scopes 𝑉 𝑖 (𝑈 ) and ensures that all search operations and metadata exposure remain bounded to the subset of resources au-thorised for the search party. No keyword or resource reference is revealed outside 𝑉 (𝑈 ). Thus, search results returned to a search party 𝑈 are strictly limited to its authorized data visibility scope: 

∀𝑈 ∈ U , 𝑅 (𝑄, 𝑈 ) ⊆ 𝑉 (𝑈 )

That is, the result set does not contain any reference to resources beyond the visibility scope defined by the access control policies associated with the search party 𝑈 . This is the foundational defense against unauthorized Information Disclosure. 

Example. Let the text resources corpus be 

𝑅 = {𝑟 1, 𝑟 2, 𝑟 3 }

> 9

and let two users 𝑈 𝐴 and 𝑈 𝐵 have visibility scopes defined by access-control policies: 

𝑉 (𝑈 𝐴 ) = {𝑟 1, 𝑟 2 }, 𝑉 (𝑈 𝐵 ) = {𝑟 3 }.

Assume the keyword “diabetes” appears only in 𝑟 3. If user 𝑈 𝐴 

issues the query 

𝑄 = “diabetes” ,

ESPRESSO evaluates the search strictly over 𝑉 (𝑈 𝐴 ). Since no re-source in 𝑉 (𝑈 𝐴 ) contains the keyword, the result is 

𝑅 (𝑄, 𝑈 𝐴 ) = ∅.

No reference, metadata, or indication of the existence of 𝑟 3 is revealed in the result of that query ( 𝑄 ) submitted by user 𝑈 𝐴 . Thus, the returned result satisfies 

𝑅 (𝑄, 𝑈 𝐴 ) ⊆ 𝑉 (𝑈 𝐴 ),

demonstrating visibility/access scope isolation. 

(PG2) WebID-Scoped Decentralised Indexing & Index Isola-tion . Instead of relying on a global index, the ESPRESSO Indexing App maintains within each pod 𝑃 𝑖 a separate inverted index I𝑖 𝑗 

for every search party 𝑈 based on the subset of resources in 𝑃 𝑖 

that 𝑈 is authorized to access. Formally, the index exposed to 𝑈 is constructed over their visibility scope: 

I𝑖 𝑗 = Index (𝑉 𝑖 (𝑈 )) 

It is important to note that only the pod owner, and the relevant components of ESPRESSO, have access to the pod index. Access to the pod index is granted by adding the WebID - in this case, the ESPRESSO indexing app’s WebID and the ESPRESSO search app’s WebID - to the Access Control List (ACL) of the pod index, at the level of the container. Each index file within the pod index is search party-specific. That is, each search party (WebID) that has access to resources in a given pod has its own index file, which only contains keyword statistics for resources that are accessible to that WebID. When searching a pod for resources that match a search query, the ESPRESSO search app will only look at the index files for the WebID of the search party. This prevents cross-user inference about keywords or the exis-tence of private resources. It also ensures the search operations are privacy-preserving at the index level: a search party cannot infer the presence or frequency of keywords in text resources they are not authorized to view. 

Example: Consider a pod 𝑃 𝑖 that contains three text resources: 

• 𝑟 1 containing the terms "genetic" and "therapy" 

• 𝑟 2 containing the term "cancer" 

• 𝑟 3 containing the terms "diabetes" and "diet" 

Let the access control policies be: 

• 𝑈 1 is authorized to access only 𝑟 1

• 𝑈 2 is authorized to access only 𝑟 2 and 𝑟 3

Then: 

𝑉 𝑖 (𝑈 1) = 𝑟 1, 𝑉 𝑖 (𝑈 2) = 𝑟 2, 𝑟 3

The system generates two distinct indexes: 

• I 𝑖 𝑗 includes keywords: genetic , therapy 

• I 𝑖𝑘 includes keywords: cancer , diabetes , diet 

During query processing, each search party can access only the index constructed for its own WebID. Last but not least, if a hosting server deviates from the proto-col, for example, by bypassing ACP enforcement, merging indexes across pods, this privacy guarantee no longer holds; such fully ma-licious servers fall outside our threat model. Correctness trust is supported by auditable, open-source Solid servers and client-side checks that query results are scoped to authorized pods, but clients cannot verify the absence of additional server-side logging. Accord-ingly, our guarantees limit what can be inferred from observable protocol outputs rather than arbitrary server misbehavior. 

(PG3) Using Probabilistic Source Selection Metadata . Build-ing on the probabilistic metadata disclosure strategy described in Section 3.1.3, ESPRESSO provides a concrete privacy guarantee by applying Bloom filters to the search-party-specific metadata maintained at both the overlay network level and the server level. The Bloom filter mechanism probabilistically encodes potential keyword occurrences associated with a search party’s WebID, pre-venting the exact reconstruction of keyword–pod mappings or the underlying metadata structures. Each Bloom filter is generated and 

scoped per search party , ensuring that only the holder of the corresponding WebID can access it. This search-party-specific en-coding restricts other search parties from inferring relationships between keywords, pods, or queries belonging to a different search party, thereby strengthening the confidentiality of both metadata and data within pods. Our Bloom filter approach makes it diffi-cult for an adversary to infer information, since the false positive rate increases with the number of keywords in a query. False pos-itives introduce additional noise, making it difficult to determine the precise query answer from the top retrieved resources. 

(PG4) Source-Selection Metadata Conservativity & Separa-bility. Source-selection metadata structures in ESPRESSO are pri-marily designed to improve system performance and scalability, particularly in large-scale decentralized deployments (e.g., hun-dreds of servers hosting thousands of pods). Accordingly, while the primary purpose of source-selection metadata at both levels is effi-cient query processing, ESPRESSO explicitly incorporates privacy considerations into its design. In particular, source-selection meta-data structures are required to be both conservative and separable .Throughout this section, we use the term search party interchange-ably with WebID .

• Conservativity ensures that no source-selection metadata is maintained at any level (server or overlay network) that could not be recomputed solely from the results of legiti-mate queries submitted by a given authorized search party. In other words, any metadata maintained by ESPRESSO (such as keyword presence/absence, keyword frequency or distribution across sources (servers or pods), or source cardinality information) can be fully derived/reconstructed by a given search party from the observable search results of authorized query executions and does not introduce ad-ditional information beyond what those queries already reveal. 

> 10

• Separability guarantees that all ESPRESSO source selec-tion metadata is partitioned into disjoint subsets corre-sponding to each search party’s WebID . This ensures that no search party learns information beyond what they could derive from the results of their authorized queries. From the total server-level or overlay network-level metadata, only the portion that a given WebID could legitimately infer (from the results of its own queries) is accessed when pro-cessing queries submitted by that search party, preventing cross-user information leakage. Metadata separability can be viewed as a lifting of index isolation (PG2) from the level of data stores and indexes to the level of source-selection metadata. Concretely, while PG2 ensures that query evalu-ation and index access are scoped to a single WebID, PG4 ensures that any metadata derived from such evaluation remains partitioned by WebID and does not introduce cross-WebID information flow. To illustrate the above two guarantees, let W denote the set of WebIDs in the system. We write 𝑤 1, . . . , 𝑤 𝑢 ∈ W for end-user We-bIDs, and 𝑤 Indexer , 𝑤 SearchApp ∈ W for the WebIDs of the ESPRESSO Indexing App and Search App, respectively. These principles oper-ate on solid servers 𝑆 1, . . . , 𝑆 𝑣 . A Solid server 𝑆 hosts pods 𝑃 1, . . . , 𝑃 𝑛 

identified by URLs URL 1, . . . , URL 𝑛 , of which only a subset 𝑃 1, . . . , 𝑃 𝑚 

are accessible to the ESPRESSO Search App. When a search party 

𝑤 ∈ { 𝑤 1, . . . , 𝑤 𝑢 } ⊆ W issues a query 𝑞 , the ESPRESSO Search App returns to the local overlay node only the URLs {𝑈 𝑅𝐿 1, . . . , 𝑈 𝑅𝐿 𝑘 }

of pods (𝑃 1, . . . , 𝑃 𝑘 ) ⊆ ( 𝑃 1, . . . , 𝑃 𝑚 ) that (i) match the query and (ii) are authorized for 𝑤 . We denote this by Result (𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆 ).

(A) Server-Level Conservativity. Each Solid server 𝑆 hosts a set of pods indexed by the ESPRESSO Indexing App and exposes search capabilities via the ESPRESSO Search App. The server-level metadata 𝑀𝑆 𝑆 maintained on 𝑆 is computed entirely from access-controlled query results by applying a deterministic function: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 = 𝑓 𝑆 (( 𝑤 1, 𝑞 1, 𝑅 1), . . . , (𝑤 𝑟 , 𝑞 𝑟 , 𝑅 𝑟 )) ,

where 𝑅 𝑖 = Result (𝑤 𝑖 , 𝑞 𝑖 , 𝑆 ) is the result returned to search party 

𝑤 𝑖 for query 𝑞 𝑖 . Thus, no metadata stored on 𝑆 contains information that could not be reconstructed by issuing authorized queries and running the same function on the returned results. If such metadata is exposed to search parties, 𝑓 𝑆 must additionally satisfy the separability property: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 =

> 𝑢

Ú

> 𝑖 =1

𝑀𝑆 𝑆,𝑤 𝑖 , 𝑀𝑆 𝑆,𝑤 𝑖 = 𝑓 𝑆 

 (𝑤 𝑖 , 𝑞 1, Result (𝑤 𝑖 , 𝑞 1, 𝑆 )) , . . . ,

ensuring that each search party 𝑤 𝑖 can only view the portion of 

𝑀𝑆 𝑆 derivable from their own authorized queries. 

(B) Overlay-Level Conservativity: Overlay network nodes (e.g., indexing routers or federated search controllers) may maintain metadata derived from multiple servers to support query routing or result merging. This system-level metadata 𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (𝑡 ) is computed incrementally via a deterministic aggregation function: 

𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (𝑡 ) = 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 



𝑡, {( 𝐼 𝑗 , 𝑀𝑆 𝑆 𝑗 (𝑡 𝑗 ))} 𝑣 𝑗 =1



, where 𝑡 𝑗 ≤ 𝑡 . 

where each pair (𝐼 𝑗 , 𝑀𝑆 𝑆 𝑗 (𝑡 𝑗 )) denotes a snapshot of the server-level metadata from server 𝑆 𝑗 , identified by 𝐼 𝑗 , available at time 𝑡 𝑗 ≤ 𝑡 . We allow 𝑡 1, . . . , 𝑡 𝑣 to be earlier than 𝑡 , reflecting that updates to system-level metadata may be delayed due to bandwidth or aggregation complexity. If overlay-level metadata is exposed to search parties, 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 must satisfy the same separability constraint as 𝑓 𝑆 , ensuring that the portion of 𝑀𝑆 𝑁 (𝑡 ) visible to a search party 𝑊 𝑖 can be derived solely from queries that 𝑊 𝑖 is authorized to issue. 

• 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 is an aggregation function, not an oracle. It does not synthesize or infer new information but merges observable metadata from server-local contexts. 

• Overlay-level metadata is thus constrained by the same conservativity principle: it cannot amplify the visibility of any search party beyond what local server metadata and query results already reveal. 

Explicit Reconstruction Algorithms . We now make explicit the reconstruction functions 𝑓 𝑆 and 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 referenced above, including their input and output types. Let 𝑤 ∈ W denote a WebID, 𝑞 ∈ Q a query term, 𝑆 a server, and 

𝑃 denote a pod URL (pod identifier). Let Result (𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆 ) ⊆ P denote the set of pod URLs hosted by 𝑆 that match 𝑞 and are authorised for 𝑤 .A server-local authorised result record is a tuple 

⟨𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆, 𝑅 ⟩ where 𝑅 = Result (𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆 ).

In what follows, we instantiate the reconstructed metadata sta-tistics using only the cardinality of the authorised result set, i.e., 

|𝑅 |, for simplicity. However, the same reconstruction pattern can be extended to compute additional server-level or system-level sta-tistics from authorised results, such as term-frequency summaries, collection-size summaries, or other statistics required for source selection and ranking. 

Server-level reconstruction function 𝑓 𝑆 . The function 𝑓 𝑆 maps authorised result records produced by a server 𝑆 to server-level source-selection metadata partitioned by WebID. 

Algorithm 1 𝑓 𝑆 : Server-Level Metadata Reconstruction 

Require: Log 𝑆 : authorised result records ⟨𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆, 𝑅 ⟩

Ensure: MS 𝑆 : server metadata indexed by WebID and query  

> 1:

initialise empty map MS 𝑆  

> 2:

for all ⟨𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆, 𝑅 ⟩ ∈ Log 𝑆 do  

> 3:

MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Pods ← MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Pods ∪ 𝑅  

> 4:

MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Count ← | MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Pods | 

> 5:

end for  

> 6:

return MS 𝑆 

We assume that for any pair (𝑤, 𝑞 ) not yet present in MS 𝑆 , the corresponding entry is implicitly initialized with Pods = ∅ and 

Count = 0.Thus, for all 𝑤, 𝑞 , MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ] is exactly the union and cardinality of authorised results Result (𝑤, 𝑞, 𝑆 ).

Overlay-level reconstruction function 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 . The overlay ag-gregates server-level metadata without introducing new informa-tion. The aggregation logic of 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 depends only on the content of the server-level metadata; time parameters and server identifiers 

> 11

are carried to model network asynchrony and routing, but do not affect correctness. 

Algorithm 2 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 : Overlay-Level Metadata Reconstruction 

Require: {( 𝐼 𝑗 , 𝑡 𝑗 , MS 𝑆 𝑗 (𝑡 𝑗 ))} 𝑣 𝑗 =1 server metadata snapshots 

Ensure: MSN overlay metadata indexed by WebID and query 

1: initialise empty map MSN 

2: for all (𝐼 𝑗 , 𝑡 𝑗 , MS 𝑆 𝑗 (𝑡 𝑗 )) do 

3: for all 𝑤, 𝑞 such that MS 𝑆 [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Count > 0 do 

4: MSN [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Servers ← MSN [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Servers ∪ { 𝐼 𝑗 }

5: end for 

6: end for 

7: for all 𝑤, 𝑞 do 

8: MSN [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Count ← | MSN [𝑤 ] [ 𝑞 ].Servers |

9: end for 

10: return MSN 

The overlay metadata therefore records, per WebID, only which servers already returned authorised non-empty results. 

Note. In general, the aggregation policy implemented by 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 

may vary across overlay networks 𝑁 and across overlay node roles (e.g., routing nodes versus aggregation nodes). The function 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 is defined at the overlay level and is independent of individual servers, operating only on server-level metadata snapshots that are already access-controlled. 

Separability per WebID Example . Consider two servers 𝑆 1, 𝑆 2

and three pods: 𝑆 1 hosts {𝑃 𝐴 , 𝑃 𝐵 } and 𝑆 2 hosts {𝑃 𝐶 }. Let 𝑞 be a query keyword and consider two WebIDs 𝑤 1 and 𝑤 2.Assume authorised query execution yields: Result (𝑤 1, 𝑞, 𝑆 1) = {𝑃 𝐴 }, Result (𝑤 2, 𝑞, 𝑆 1) = {𝑃 𝐵 }

Result (𝑤 1, 𝑞, 𝑆 2) = {𝑃 𝐶 }, Result (𝑤 2, 𝑞, 𝑆 2) = ∅.

Applying 𝑓 𝑆 yields: 

MS 𝑆 1 [𝑤 1] [ 𝑞 ] = ({ 𝑃 𝐴 }, 1), MS 𝑆 1 [𝑤 2] [ 𝑞 ] = ({ 𝑃 𝐵 }, 1),

MS 𝑆 2 [𝑤 1] [ 𝑞 ] = ({ 𝑃 𝐶 }, 1), MS 𝑆 2 [𝑤 2] [ 𝑞 ] = (∅ , 0).

Applying 𝑓 𝑁 ,𝑆 yields: 

MSN [𝑤 1] [ 𝑞 ] = ({ 𝑆 1, 𝑆 2 }, 2), MSN [𝑤 2] [ 𝑞 ] = ({ 𝑆 1 }, 1).

Crucially, metadata for 𝑤 1 is computable solely from authorised results of 𝑤 1, and analogously for 𝑤 2. No information about pods or servers visible only to 𝑤 2 is derivable from MSN [𝑤 1], demon-strating separability per WebID. 

Security Implications of metadata conservativity: This prop-erty guarantees that: 

• No search party can gain indirect knowledge about inacces-sible text resources or keywords via metadata structures. 

• Metadata cannot be used to reverse-engineer hidden data or bypass access control, even if the metadata is inspected directly. 

• Metadata structures are non-amplifying: they reflect what is already observable through authorized access, not more. 

Table 1: Relationship between Information Disclosure adver-sary goals and privacy guarantees                            

> Adversary Goal PG1 PG2 PG3 PG4 Comments / Protection Mechanism (G1) Membership Inference ✓✓Query results are restricted to autho-rized visibility; Bloom filters prevent re-liable negative responses. (G2) Access Pattern Inference ✓✓Only result-bearing pods within the vis-ibility scope are revealed; metadata is derived solely from visible output. (G3) Keyword Frequency Esti-mation
> ✓✓Per-user index scoping hides global key-word frequencies; Bloom filters intro-duce controlled false positives. (G4) Index Reconstruction ✓✓✓Isolated per-user indices prevent cross-user leakage; metadata reflects only ob-servable results. (G5) Indirect Inference via Cor-relation
> ✓✓~~Direct keyword access is hidden, but statistical inference through result cor-relations is not explicitly prevented. (I1) Direct Identification ✓✓Search results include only authorized references; unauthorized identity disclo-sure is prevented. (I2) Re-identification via Quasi-identifiers
> ✓✓~Index isolation and limited metadata re-duce linkage risk; no formal anonymiza-tion guarantees are enforced.

Example: Suppose WebID 𝑤 submits a query for the keyword 

cancer and receives results from pods 𝑃 1, 𝑃 4, and 𝑃 7. The server may record this internally as a metadata tuple ( cancer , 3), or update a Bloom filter with those pod references. However, this metadata is entirely reconstructible from the result set that 𝑤 already received, and would not have been created unless the Search App produced those results through access-respecting evaluation. This ensures that even if adversaries inspect metadata, they cannot learn anything they could not already infer from aggregating results retrieved from their permitted queries . Therefore, Metadata is non-amplifying and access-bounded. It is worth mentioning that the metadata separability and con-servativity guarantees in ESPRESSO differ fundamentally from 

Differential Privacy (DP) [ 15 ] as they restrict information flow but do not introduce statistical noise to obscure aggregate properties. As a result, statistical inference attacks (e.g., keyword frequency es-timation or correlated inference) remain possible within authorized visibility, whereas DP would explicitly mitigate such inference risks by perturbing metadata or responses. 

## 5.5 Mapping Adversary Goals to ESPRESSO Privacy Guarantees 

In Table 1, we summarize how each privacy guarantee addresses the different adversarial goals introduced in the previous section. It highlights how ESPRESSO’s privacy guarantees jointly constrain different inference channels rather than relying on a single defense. For example, access-bounded guarantees (PG1 and PG2) provide strong protection against direct disclosure and cross-user leakage, while metadata-oriented guarantees (PG3 and PG4) limit amplifi-cation of information through source selection and aggregation. Goals marked with ∼ reflect residual statistical inference that re-mains possible within authorized visibility scopes, emphasizing that ESPRESSO limit information exposure but does not eliminate all correlation-based inference. 

> 12

## 6 ESPRESSO SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS. 

The privacy guarantees of ESPRESSO are defined under explicit design and threat-model boundaries that balance privacy protec-tion, system performance, and deployability in real-world Solid environments. 

• No Differential Privacy: ESPRESSO does not introduce statistical noise into metadata or query results. Incorporat-ing differential privacy mechanisms is orthogonal to our design and left for future work. 

• No Cryptographic Query Processing: Index construc-tion, lookup, and ranking are performed in plain text. ESPRESSO does not rely on secure multiparty computation, homomor-phic encryption, or oblivious RAM. 

• Hosting Server Trust Boundary: ESPRESSO assumes 

correctness trust for hosting servers, i.e., correct enforce-ment of authentication, access control, and pod-level in-dex isolation. However, the Privacy trust is not assumed within ESPRESSO. Even protocol-compliant servers may be honest-but-curious and attempt to infer information from query execution or metadata, and are therefore included in the adversary model. Fully malicious or non-compliant servers are out of scope for this work. Addressing such servers through verifiable enforcement, trusted execution, or cryptographic query processing is left to future work. 

• Limited Collusion Model: Our analysis considers inde-pendently acting adversaries. Collusion across WebIDs, servers, or infrastructure layers may increase inference power, but does not bypass access control or index isola-tion. Stronger collusion resistance is left to future work. 

• No Query Obfuscation: ESPRESSO does not employ dummy queries, traffic padding, or access-pattern obfuscation. Con-sequently, traffic analysis and timing-based inference are not explicitly mitigated. However, with the privacy guaran-tees (PG1-PG4), observing results of multiple queries will not reveal any statistical data beyond the access rights of the search party. 

• Authentication and Session Security: ESPRESSO dele-gates authentication, session lifecycle management, del-egated agent authorization, and revocation handling to the Solid ecosystem. Attacks exploiting session fixation, token replay, misuse of delegated agents, or delayed revo-cation are considered outside the scope of this work and are assumed to be mitigated by Solid-compliant identity providers and servers. ESPRESSO’s threat model focuses on the privacy implications of decentralized search under the assumption of correct authentication enforcement. These boundaries are intentional and reflect a design choice to provide strong access-bounded privacy guarantees without compro-mising scalability or compatibility with existing Solid deployments. Extending ESPRESSO with noise-based defenses, cryptographic enforcement, or collusion-resilient mechanisms is a promising di-rection for future research. 

## 7 CONCLUSION & FUTURE DIRECTIONS 

Our threat model reflects practical risks in real-world decentralized environments. The guarantees offered by ESPRESSO, including access and index isolation and the conservative, separable treat-ment of source-selection metadata, establish a robust foundation for secure decentralized search. While ESPRESSO currently relies on separability and conservativity for access control, differential privacy (DP) could be introduced in future versions to mitigate statistical inference risks. DP noise could be added at the pod level, server level, or overly network level, trading some accuracy for stronger protection against membership and frequency inference. Other future enhancements may include oblivious query execu-tion and encrypted indexing to provide formal semantic security. A deeper analysis of authentication-layer threats—such as dele-gated agent misuse, session life cycle management, and revocation propagation-remains an important direction for future work, partic-ularly as Solid deployments increasingly rely on automated agents and long-lived access tokens. 

## REFERENCES