Title: CCX: Enabling Unmodified Intel SGX Applications on Arm CCA

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.07548v1

Published Time: Mon, 11 May 2026 01:01:39 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# CCX: Enabling Unmodified Intel SGX Applications on Arm CCA 

Matti Schulze 

FAU Erlangen-N¨ urnberg matti.schulze@fau.de 

Thorsten Holz 

Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy thorsten.holz@mpi-sp.org 

Felix Freiling 

FAU Erlangen-N¨ urnberg felix.freiling@fau.de 

Abstract —Novel confidential computing technologies such as Intel TDX, AMD SEV, and Arm CCA have recently emerged. In practice, due to its minimal trust boundaries, Intel SGX still remains widely used for enclave-based applications in cloud environments, including confidential cloud services, privacy-preserving communication, secure payment processing, and privacy-focused advertising. With the growing adoption of Arm CPUs in cloud systems, however, existing SGX applications face a significant portability challenge: they are tightly coupled to SGX-specific APIs and execution semantics. In this paper, we present the design and implementation of CCX, a framework that enables existing SGX applications to run on Arm CCA without source code modification. To this end, CCX redesigns SGX functionality within Arm CCA firmware, adapting SGX abstractions to CCA’s architecture design while preserving full compatibility with existing applications originally developed for SGX. We implemented a prototype of CCX on both the QEMU emulator and a Nitrogen8M development board. Our evaluation shows that CCX is capable of executing existing SGX applications without requiring source code changes, while providing security guarantees comparable to Intel SGX and achieving performance improvements in our evaluated settings. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Recurring vulnerabilities in system software, in particular operating systems (OSes) and hypervisors, have motivated the development of trusted execution environments (TEEs). TEEs execute code in hardware-isolated environments, protecting its confidentiality and integrity from potentially compromised system software. Early TEEs primarily targeted user-space applications through so-called enclaves , which isolate a trusted component from the rest of the application. For example, Intel SGX provides enclaves that enable fine-grained isolation of a trusted component (T-App) within an application from an untrusted component (U-App) [50]. However, in recent years, TEEs have increasingly targeted cloud computing, enabling isolation of entire virtual ma-chines ( confidential VMs , or cVMs) even from the cloud provider’s hypervisor. Technologies supporting cVMs include AMD SEV [16], Intel TDX [30], and Arm CCA [70], [60]. While cVMs enable flexible deployment of confidential workloads, they operate at VM granularity. As a result, they have a larger trusted computing base (TCB) and lack support for fine-grained intra-process isolation [54] Therefore, Intel SGX [17], [47], [66], while deprecated on Intel’s desktop platforms [51], remains fully supported in Intel’s server CPUs and is a popular choice in cloud environments. Intel attributes this popularity to SGX’s minimal trust boundary and precise execution model, which cVMs do not provide [54]. However, while developers who prioritize these qualities over the flexi-bility of cVMs can still choose to use SGX on Intel platforms, these properties are not available on other architectures. On AMD platforms, this limitation has motivated several efforts to port SGX via virtualization [55], [94], [86]. These approaches benefit from the shared x86-64 architecture of Intel and AMD CPUs, enabling the reuse of many underlying components and designs with minimal modifications. How-ever, because they rely on virtualization rather than hardware-enforced protection mechanisms, they cannot provide secu-rity guarantees equivalent to SGX or other hardware TEEs. Furthermore, the ease of porting enabled by the shared x64 architecture does not carry over to other architectures, such as Arm CPUs, which differ significantly from x86-64 CPUs. Although Arm CCA provides support for cVMs, it does not natively provide SGX-style user-space enclaves. This issue is increasingly important as Arm CPUs are widely adopted in cloud environments [41], [14], [67]. Recent research has therefore explored how to provide enclave-like abstractions on Arm-based platforms. For ex-ample, S HELTER [93] reuses Arm CCA hardware features to execute entire user-space applications in enclaves. While this enables inter-process isolation, such approaches cannot be compared with SGX, which offers intra-process isolation. This observation also motivated concurrent work, such as NanoZone [64] and HiveTEE [48], which repurpose CCA hardware primitives to implement intra-process isolation. Although these approaches show promising results, their application in real-world settings raises two challenges. First, SGX has a substantial application ecosystem. It is widely used in practice, for example, by Microsoft [53], IBM [52], Sig-nal [81], [31], Mozilla [69], Cosmian [33], or Flashbots [38] as well as in academic research, as evidenced by a substan-tial body of literature using it [87]. Second, the suggested programming models and SDKs of the new approaches are not as mature as SGX’s programming model [50] and the implementation offered by the SGX SDK [6], which has evolved over many years. Existing SGX applications could, in principle, be ported to new Arm enclave frameworks, but doing so would require redesigning them for a different programming model, incurring substantial engineering cost and weakening the value of the existing SGX ecosystem. 

> arXiv:2605.07548v1 [cs.CR] 8 May 2026

This leaves a significant portability challenge: Arm plat-forms are gaining traction in cloud environments [43], while many confidential applications still rely on SGX’s minimal trust boundaries afforded by intra-process isolation. Existing approaches can provide enclave-like isolation on Arm, but they do not allow existing SGX applications to migrate transpar-ently. Instead, they require developers to adopt new and less mature APIs, SDKs, and execution models. To address this problem, we present CCX, a framework that enables transparent migration of existing SGX applications to modern Arm systems. Like NanoZone [64] and HiveTEE [64], [48], CCX repurposes Arm CCA for enclave-style isolation. Unlike prior work, however, CCX focuses on SGX compat-ibility: we reimplement the SGX instruction interface within Arm CCA firmware and adapt SGX’s architecture-dependent components (i.e., SDK, kernel module, and compiler) to Arm CCA. This requires redesigning several SGX mechanisms, in-cluding enclave creation and entry, and memory management. With this design, CCX preserves the SGX enclave abstraction on Arm systems without requiring modifications of the source code. Existing SGX applications only need to be recompiled with the CCX toolchain. CCX effectively reproduces SGX’s enclave execution model on a fundamentally different ISA. By preserving the semantics of SGX’s isolation features within a comparable threat model, CCX aims to provide security guarantees analogous to those of SGX. Hence, CCX relies on a minimal TCB that includes only the most privileged Arm firmware component, the Monitor. As a result, CCX brings the security of SGX’s mature intra-process isolation capabilities to Arm CPUs. To validate our design in the absence of publicly available CCA hardware, we implemented CCX on the QEMU emulator and a Nitrogen8M development board. Using these prototypes, we executed a diverse set of open-source SGX applications (e.g., a cryptographic library, a database, a federated learning framework, and a data analytics tool) without requiring any 

source code modifications. These results demonstrate that CCX can support realistic server-side SGX workloads on Arm systems. Our performance evaluation further shows that CCX runs workloads at near-native speed and, in most evaluated cases, outperforms SGX. In summary, we make the following key contributions:  

> •

We present the design and implementation of CCX, a framework that enables existing SGX applications to run on Arm CCA without any source code modifications.  

> •

We demonstrate the extensibility and practicality of CCX by adapting the SGX software stack, including the SDK, kernel module, and compiler, to Arm CCA while preserv-ing compatibility with existing enclave applications.  

> •

We build two prototypes of CCX on the QEMU emulator and on a Nitrogen8M development board. Based on these implementations, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation with multiple SGX applications and benchmarks. Our results show that CCX runs enclaves with near-native performance and effectively brings the benefits of SGX to modern Arm-based cloud environments. To foster further research and development, we open-source the full CCX framework. We make the perfor-mance prototype available at https://github .com/ma-schulze/ ccx nitrogen8m and the functional prototype at https:// github .com/ma-schulze/ccx. II. B ACKGROUND 

In the following, we provide an overview of the founda-tions of Intel SGX and Arm CCA. We first review SGX’s architecture and programming model, which CCX aims to reproduce on Arm platforms. We then describe Arm CCA, whose primitives CCX leverages to realize SGX-like enclaves. 

A. Intel Software Guard Extensions (SGX) 

Intel SGX is a hardware extension available on most In-tel server CPUs that enables secure execution of user-space enclaves, supporting fine-grained intra-process isolation. First described in 2013 [17], [47], [66], processors supporting this extension became available starting in 2015. 

Hardware Architecture. At the core of SGX lies the En-clave Page Cache (EPC), a protected DRAM region secured by hardware encryption and strict access controls. Only dedicated SGX instructions can access the EPC, while all other accesses (e.g., from the OS, hypervisor, or firmware) trigger CPU faults. The suggested programming model for SGX uses these features to load security-critical user-space code into the EPC, creating so-called enclaves .SGX management relies on two instruction classes: ENCLU 

for user-space and ENCLS for privileged operations. Both invoke microcode routines responsible for EPC management, with the leaf number in the EAX register selecting the specific routine (see Table VII in the appendix). SGX has evolved over time, introducing the SGX2 and AEX-Notify [32] extensions that offer additional microcode routines. The available hard-ware configuration (e.g., EPC size or extension support) can be determined via CPUID calls. This microcode-centric design is central to SGX’s execution model and poses a significant challenge for reproducing its semantics on other architectures. Various data structures, mostly placed within the EPC, manage SGX resources. A key data structure is the SGX Enclave Control Structure (SECS), which encodes an enclave’s attributes, state, and identifier. Each enclave is associated with one or more Thread Control Structures (TCS), which manage enclave threads by storing their execution context, including registers and instruction pointers. In addition, every EPC page is tracked by the Enclave Page Cache Map (EPCM), which records its permissions, state, page type, SECS association, and virtual address. Together, these data structures govern the enclave lifecycle and enforce the isolation guarantees. 

Programming Model. Intel SGX suggests a specific en-clave lifecycle and architecture, supported by the Intel SGX SDK [6] (see Figure 1). Applications are partitioned into an 

untrusted component (U-App) and a trusted component (T-App), the latter executing securely inside the EPC. The enclave lifecycle begins when the U-App requests the kernel to create a 2EPC     

> App
> Microcode
> U-App
> OS
> Kernel
> ENCLS
> SGX-Driver
> uRTS libc Enclave T-App tRTS tlibc
> ENCLU
> ENCLU
> EPCM Fig. 1. Architecture of an SGX-App running on a typical SGX-enabled platform. Gray components are trusted, while white components are untrusted.

new enclave via the ECREATE instruction. In this uninitialized state, enclave pages can be added with EADD , removed using 

EREMOVE , and the enclave’s cryptographic measurement can be extended via EEXTEND . Once the setup is complete, EINIT 

transitions the enclave into an initialized state. From here, ad-ditional instructions support EPC management: pages may be blocked ( EBLOCK ), tracked ( ETRACK ), encrypted and saved to disk ( EWB ), and reintroduced into the enclave ( ELDU /ELDB ) to optimize EPC usage via page swapping. The model explicitly encourages writing pages to disk to avoid EPC exhaustion. However, this swapping, necessitated by the limited EPC size, can be a major performance bottleneck in SGX-based systems [72], [5]. Enclaves are entered via EENTER , or resumed with ERESUME 

after an interrupt triggers an Asynchronous Enclave Exit 

(AEX), during which control returns to the OS for interrupt handling. At runtime, an enclave can generate cryptographic keys ( EGETKEY ) and attestation reports ( EREPORT ). SGX2 extends the model with dynamic page management, allowing an already-initialized enclave to add pages ( EAUG ), expand ( EMODPE ) or restrict ( EMODPR ) page permissions, and modify ( EMODPT ) page types. Such changes to an EPC page become active with the EACCEPT or EACCEPTCOPY instruc-tions, the latter additionally copying an existing page to the targeted page in the EPC. Finally, the AEX-Notify extension introduces an enclave-specific interrupt handler that executes after an AEX. This han-dler can implement mitigations against side-channel attacks, such as SGX-Step [25], by using the EDECCSSA instruction afterward to adjust the threads’ internal TCS structure for resuming enclave execution. 

Intel SGX SDK. Most SGX applications use the Intel SGX SDK [6], which provides untrusted libraries for the U-App and trusted ones for the T-App. The untrusted runtime services library (uRTS) manages enclave creation and function execution by interfacing with the Linux kernel driver, which handles privileged ENCLS calls. On the enclave side, the trusted runtime services library (tRTS) implements core functionality, such as memory management via ENCLU calls, as well as a minimal C standard library (tlibc). To simplify app development, untrusted and trusted code can reside within a single codebase. Intel’s Enclave Definition Language (EDL) specifies which parts of the code belong to the T-App. During preprocessing, the EDL generates the RMM Hypervisor SPM        

> Monitor (TF-A)
> VM VM T-OS T-OS
> Realm Normal Secure EL3/ Root EL2 EL1 EL0 TA TA
> OS
> App R-VM
> Fig. 2. Architecture of an Arm platform supporting Arm CCA (light gray components) and TrustZone (gray components). The Monitor manages the world separation.

boilerplate for enclave entry calls (ECALLs) and outside calls (OCALLs), which are ultimately executed via the correspond-ing ENCLU instructions. With this, SGX enables the isolation of code at a function granularity for intra-process isolation. Due to the dependency of most SGX apps onto this SDK, any solution that aims to port SGX to other platforms must also port the SDK. Since the SDK is tightly coupled to SGX’s microcode-based design, porting it requires redesigning low-level components while preserving API compatibility. 

B. Arm Confidential Compute Architecture 

Next, we outline the architecture of modern Arm CPUs, TrustZone, and Arm CCA, which Figure 2 illustrates. Arm-A CPUs implement a vertical privilege model with four excep-tion levels (EL3–EL0): EL3 hosts firmware, EL2 typically runs a hypervisor, EL1 the OS, and EL0 user applications. With Armv8.1, the Virtualization Host Extensions (VHE) enable the OS to execute at EL2, while virtual machines run at EL1. Most modern CPUs support VHE, making it the default for OSes like Linux. In general, higher ELs can access the resources of lower ELs and preempt their execution, while lower ELs have restricted access. Transitions to a higher EL occur via interrupts or dedicated instructions, such as SVC (user space to OS), HVC (VM to hypervisor), and SMC (OS or hypervisor to EL3 firmware). Additionally, some other instructions can also trigger synchronous exceptions to higher ELs, e.g., by triggering page faults, or if a higher EL disables the current EL’s use of the feature associated with the instruction. 

Arm TrustZone. Introduced in 2004 [74], Arm TrustZone extends the privilege model horizontally by introducing coun-terparts for EL2 to EL0 in the secure world (SW), which EL3 is also assigned to. While commodity software (OS and hypervisor) runs in the normal world (NW), the SW provides a hardware-protected TEE consisting of an isolated, trusted OS that executes trusted apps. Arm Trusted Firmware (TF-A) [4] provides a reference implementation of the EL3 firmware, the 

Monitor , which manages the TEE. 

Arm CCA. Introduced with Armv9 in 2021, CCA extends TrustZone to protect not only applications, but also entire VMs from malicious hypervisors [70]. However, it does not natively provide abstractions for inter- or intra-process iso-lation.” CCA introduces the Realm Extension (FEAT RME ), which defines two additional security states: the realm world 

3TABLE I OVERVIEW OF ARM CCA MEMORY ACCESS PERMISSIONS .                    

> Security State Normal Secure Realm Root Normal YNNN
> Secure YYNN
> Realm YNYN
> Root YYYY

for confidential VMs (cVMs) and the root world , now hosting EL3. At realm EL2 (R-EL2), a new firmware component, the 

Realm Management Monitor (RMM), secures the execution of cVMs, while the hypervisor continues to manage scheduling and resource allocation. A new hardware component, the 

Granule Protection Table (GPT), enforces memory isolation by associating each physical page with a security state. The GPT is a dynamically updatable structure similar to memory translation tables and can only be written by the Monitor. While there is usually a single GPT, its core-local registers allow each core to be assigned a distinct GPT if required. Table I summarizes the access permissions for CCA’s secu-rity states. Only software executing in the realm of a secure state may access its respective memory regions, while EL3 has universal access. Pages may also be marked as entirely inaccessible. Any unauthorized access attempt results in a 

Granule Protection Fault (GPF). III. T HREAT MODEL 

Throughout the rest of this paper, we assume a threat model largely following the default Arm CCA assumptions. In this model, the EL3 firmware is trusted, while all other software components in the normal, secure, and realm world (includ-ing other enclaves) are considered untrusted and potentially malicious. This explicitly includes the RMM, which we also consider untrusted. This is feasible because CCX does not rely on the RMM to enforce isolation; instead, it builds directly on hardware-enforced protections managed by the Monitor. This reduces the TCB to the Monitor alone, which cannot be excluded because it controls the GPT that enforces enclave isolation. With this, we trust only the minimal number of components possible on Arm systems, akin to SGX, which also only requires trusting the microcode. We assume that the hardware behaves correctly and that neither the EL3 Monitor nor the target CCX enclave contains vulnerabilities. Assuming control over the untrusted components, an at-tacker may try to extract or tamper with enclave data. CCX, like Intel SGX [34] and Arm CCA [12], ensures confidentiality and integrity of the enclave, but does not guarantee availability. The CCA threat model considers software-based side-channel attacks, including timing and Rowhammer-style attacks [89], [76], [79]. However, similar to SGX and consistent with prior work [93], [64], CCX does not aim to fully mitigate such side channels and inherits the side-channel characteristics of the underlying platform. Similarly, while considered in the CCAs threat model, we exclude hardware-level attacks. Under this threat model, CCX aims to provide security guarantees comparable to those of SGX enclaves on Intel platforms. IV. D ESIGN 

We design CCX to tackle the challenge of executing SGX enclaves on Arm platforms, thereby bringing intra-process isolation built on a mature ecosystem to Arm systems. Its design is guided by three main objectives. First, CCX must support the execution of existing SGX applications on Arm systems without requiring any source code modifications. This guarantees that the wide range of existing SGX apps can then be used on top of CCX without requiring the significant developer effort needed by other solutions. Second, it should deliver performance comparable to, or better than, native SGX to ensure practical deployment. Finally, CCX must maintain security guarantees comparable to those of SGX, preserving confidentiality and integrity under a strong adversarial model. In the following, we describe the design principles and archi-tecture of CCX that enable these goals. 

A. Design Considerations 

To achieve these goals, we first discuss design options from prior work aiming to bring SGX to other x64-based plat-forms [94], [55], [86]. At the core of these existing approaches lies a transparent replacement for SGX’s microinstructions that preserves or strengthens its security guarantees. For CCX, we refer to this component as the CCX-Core . It intercepts all 

ENCLS and ENCLU instructions and manages isolated memory (i.e., the EPC) independently of the host. Crucially, it must be protected from all untrusted software components. HYPER ENCLAVE [55] places this component in the hyper-visor layer. However, on Arm systems with VHE, the host OS typically executes at EL2, effectively eliminating a privi-leged layer that could isolate the CCX-Core without invasive changes to the system architecture. Moreover, relying solely on virtualization weakens security compared to hardware-enforced isolation. In contrast, VSGX [94] executes enclaves inside a cVM on top of an OS that forwards communication between trusted and untrusted components. This approach increases the TCB and introduces significant performance overhead due to frequent cross-boundary interactions. A CCA-specific alternative would be to place the CCX-Core inside the RMM. However, all communication between the NW and the RMM must be mediated by EL3, introducing additional context switches. Given the frequent interactions between U-App and T-App in SGX, this leads to both perfor-mance overhead and an expanded TCB, as the RMM would need to be trusted. NESTED SGX [86] leverages AMD virtual machine priv-ilege levels (VMPLs) to enable enclaves within a cVM. Al-though CCA introduces a similar concept with planes [2], such approaches only allow enclaves to be created within guests. This contradicts SGX’s model, where enclaves are created by the host, and would again require trusting the RMM. Instead, CCX adopts a different approach. On Arm systems, EL3 firmware manages security-critical functionality, analo-gous in some respects to microcode on x64. We therefore implement the CCX-Core at EL3, leveraging its privileged position to enforce isolation while minimizing the TCB. Since 4TF-A         

> CCX
> Service
> EPC
> Trap-Handler SMC-Handler
> App U-App
> OS Kernel SGX-Driver
> libc
> CCA-Backend CCX-Core
> Enclave T-App tRTS tlibc ENCLS ENCLU CPUID Normal World Realm World
> EPCM
> ENCLU CPUID DESCRIBES
> CPUID-Handler
> uRTS
> GPT Fig. 3. Overview of CCX. Trusted components are gray; untrusted com-ponents are white. The CCX-Service primarily includes the microprogram emulator provided by the CCX-Core and supporting components operating within the TF-A.

no other software component can access EL3 resources, this placement establishes a strong and well-defined trust boundary. 

B. Design Overview 

Due to these considerations, we integrate CCX into the EL3 Monitor implemented by TF-A. Figure 3 provides a high-level overview of the design. In general, all enclave microinstructions executed by the commodity OS or a U-App running in the NW are routed to EL3, where the CCX-Core handles them. To compile existing SGX apps for Armv9 without source code modifications or loss of functionality, we also develop the CCX-toolchain , a modified version of the SGX toolchain that includes the kernel module, SGX SDK, and compiler. These components, particularly the SGX SDK, require extensive modifications due to architecture-specific elements, as discussed in Section V. By using the existing 

ENCLS calls, the SGX kernel module and the U-App can invoke the CCX-Core to place the T-App in the realm world, enabling full CCA security guarantees. The U-App and T-App can then interact with each other and the CCX-Core via ENCLU , using the same semantics of the original SGX instructions. This can be used to call trusted or untrusted functions (ECALLs and OCALLs), while the T-App can also interact with the CCX-Core, e.g., to generate cryptographic attestation reports (via EREPORT ) or cryptographic keys for sealed storage (via EGETKEY ). The key to enabling all of this is a transparent interface that forwards the execution of these instructions to the CCX-Core. This interface is implemented by various CCX components, together with the CCX-Core, forming the CCX-Service .

C. CCX-Service 

To implement SGX instructions in CCX, we reroute them to the appropriate handlers. Specifically, ENCLS calls are inter-cepted by the SMC-Handler , and ENCLU calls are handled by the Trap-Handler . Similarly, CPUID instructions are emulated by the CPUID-Handler . Both the SMC and Trap handlers execute instructions from the SGX microprogram table , which is invoked via the corresponding ENCLS and ENCLU calls. Since ENCLS instructions are executed from the OS (i.e., EL1 or EL2), we can simply replace them with the SMC instruc-tion caught by the SMC-Handler. However, ENCLU and CPUID 

calls must be directly accessible from EL0 and directly trap execution to EL3, which no instruction directly implements in the current Armv9 ISA. Using a trampoline in the OS introduces context-switch overhead and breaks transparency, potentially violating our performance and functionality goals. Thus, alternatives to directly trap from EL0 to EL3 are crucial. 

Trap-Handler. Achieving synchronous trapping from EL0 to EL3 requires instructions that satisfy three core criteria: 1) Execution may result in a synchronous EL3 trap. 2) Conditions for these traps can be reliably configured. 3) Another EL cannot intercept the trap to EL3. The ideal instruction relates to security-critical features, which can generally be disabled from EL3 and, in this case, naturally generate synchronous EL3 traps when executed from EL0. Exemplary candidates for this include instructions that access hardware registers associated with such features. Accessing these from EL0 then yields a synchronous abort to EL3, which CCX can subsequently interpret as an ENCLU call. The aarch64 general-purpose registers x0 to x3 substitute x64’s EAX , EBX ,

ECX , EDX for arguments. Section V details the instruction selected for CCX. 

CPUID-Handler. By directly trapping to EL3, we can also emulate CPUID instructions at EL3. The CPUID-Handler executes different operations depending on the requested leaf function. EAX and ECX (or x1 and x3 in CCX) define the executed leaf and sub-leaf. The leaf functions 0x12 and its sub-leafs return information about the SGX configuration, including EPC location and size. 

CCX-Core. The CCX-Core module emulates SGX micro-program instructions whenever an ENCLU or ENCLS instruction triggers a trap. Each trap is identified by a leaf number, which determines the corresponding microprogram to execute. While SGX implicitly manages side effects such as CPU state changes or hardware interactions, replicating these be-haviors on Arm platforms requires additional handling within CCX. For example, while some SGX instructions can be emulated directly, others, particularly those modifying CPU state ( EENTER /ERESUME and EEXIT ) or enclave memory state (EADD , EREMOVE , EAUG , ELDU/B , and EWB ), require significant adaptation for Arm platforms. Hence, each CCX microcode instruction can invoke its corresponding functionality in the 

CCA-Backend after executing the SGX microprogram. Fig-ure 4 and the following discussion highlight key differences in memory management between SGX and CCX, particularly in EPC management. 

Memory Management. In SGX (left side of Figure 4), the EPC is a fixed main memory segment. The kernel adds a page to an enclave in the EPC using the EADD instruc-tion 1 ; microcode copies it into the EPC 2 and updates the EPCM 3 , assigning the EPC page to the enclave. The kernel then maps the new page to a new virtual address for the enclave 4 . SGX’s Page Miss Handler (PMH) ensures that only the owning enclave can access this EPC page. 5Enclave Pages    

> Enclave Pages EPC
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> EADD
> Kernel VAS PAS
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> 4
> 1
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages PAS
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages
> Kernel
> CCX
> 4EADD
> 1
> Enclave Pages
> Enclave Pages PAS
> VAS
> sysGPT
> SGX CCX
> Micro-code
> 2
> enclGPT
> EPCM
> EPCM 3
> 2
> 3Fig. 4. Overview of different approaches to enclave memory management of SGX and CCX. Gray components are trusted, white components are untrusted, and dark gray components are trusted hardware and firmware.

CCX takes a different approach (right side of Figure 4). The EPC resides in realm memory, while the EPCM is placed in root world memory, using the GPT for world assignment. When the kernel requests to add a page 1 , it is added to the EPCM 2 . Our design introduces several improvements over SGX that address limitations arising from the EPC’s static nature. In SGX, given its fixed size, only a limited number of EPC pages can be loaded at once. When it becomes full, SGX must swap pages to and from disk using EWB 

and ELDB/U . This page swapping is expensive, potentially consuming hundreds of thousands of cycles, and represents a major performance bottleneck when the EPC is full [72]. In memory-intensive scenarios, this can reduce SGX performance by up to 50% [55]. In contrast, the dynamic nature of the GPT allows pages to be mapped on demand, expanding the EPC without requiring EWB and ELDB/U instructions. In CCX, pages are hence dynamically marked as realm pages in the GPT when added to an enclave. In Section VI, we evaluate the resulting performance improvements. Since all enclaves run in the realm world, this could enable cross-enclave attacks, where one enclave maps and accesses the memory of another enclave, which the PMH prevents for SGX [34]. To prevent such attacks in CCX, we adopt a multi-GPT approach, inspired by S HELTER [93]. In addition to the system-wide GPT (sysGPT), the CCX-Core generates a dedi-cated GPT (enclGPT) upon creating a new enclave. Adding a page marks it as realm memory in enclGPT and as inaccessible in every other GPT, including sysGPT 3 . Afterward, the kernel adds new memory mappings for the enclave page to the app 4 . This design enables another improvement: dynamic in-place EPC assignment eliminates the need to copy pages when creating enclaves, thereby improving enclave creation performance. Since the U-App expects pages to be mapped to a new virtual address after being added to an enclave (due to the copying), CCX instead double-maps the new EPC page’s physical address to mimic the original behavior. To use the multi-GPT approach, enclave entries and exits are monitored. Since the T-App operates in R-EL0, such entries and exits require context switches between the realm world and the realm. Upon an enclave entry, the CPU core’s GPT is switched to the enclave’s GPT, returning to the system GPT on exit. Thus, no untrusted software component, including the RMM (which uses the sysGPT), can access enclave memory. In Section VII, we discuss the security implications of this multi-GPT approach in detail. 

Attestation. In Intel SGX, the attestation process is based upon the instructions EREPORT and EGETKEY . For local at-testation, two enclaves can attest each other by exclusively using these primitives, without involving any other party. Remote attestation requires additional support from privileged enclaves, the Provisioning Enclave (PvE) and the Quoting Enclave (QE). The PvE uses a privileged variant of EGETKEY 

to retrieve the platform’s Provisioning Key (PK), which is used in the provisioning process against Intel’s provisioning servers to obtain the platform’s Attestation Key (AK). The QE uses this key to sign reports from other enclaves, generating quotes 

which can be verified using Intel’s attestation services [34]. Since no CCA-enabled hardware is available at the time of writing, CCX does not have access to valid keys to identify its platform. Therefore, it is currently also impossible to implement the remote infrastructure needed to verify platforms that generate AKs, making proper remote attestation at the point of writing impossible. Therefore, while CCX implements the necessary firmware functions to retrieve privileged keys, it is still–for now–only feasible to implement local attestation, a limitation also recognized in the related literature [93]. Nonetheless, we implement the local attestation architecture fully and evaluate it in Section VI. Furthermore, we present a theoretical framework for implementing remote attestation for CCX once actual CCA hardware becomes available. For CCX, the platform could be identified using the im-mutable CCA Platform Attestation Key (CPAK), issued by the platform provider and implemented in hardware (e.g., eFuses) [12]. This key, together with the boot measurements, can be used to derive a PK, which the PvE can then retrieve. This PK can then be sent to the provisioning service as proof of ownership to retrieve the platform’s AK. With this key, the remainder of the remote attestation process can be executed as in SGX. First, the AK is sealed by the PvE using the Provisioning Seal Key (PSK), which is also retrieved via 

EGETKEY . For remote attestation, an enclave can send its report (retrieved via EREPORT ) to the QE, which unseals the stored AK using the PSK, signs the report with it, and forwards the result to the calling enclave, thus completing the remote attestation process. V. I MPLEMENTATION 

We describe the implementation of the CCX-Service and the CCX-Toolchain. In total, CCX comprises approximately 4,400 SLOC in EL3 Monitor, 6,000 SLOC for the SGX SDK port, and 650 SLOC of kernel modifications. 

A. SGX-Service 

Trap- and SMC-Handler. To implement CCX’s ENCLU 

gadget, we require a register whose access from EL0 can be configured to trap to EL3. We select the PMU register 6Listing. 1. ENCLU gadget for CCX.                                   

> mov x0 , SMC_ID // the CCX identifier mov x1 , LEAF // SGX/CPUID leaf (EAX) mov x2 , arg1 // first argument (RBX) mov x3 , arg2 // second argument (RCX) mov x4 , arg3 // third argument (RDX) msr pmccntr_el0 , x0 // trigger ENCLU

PMCCNTR EL0 , as user-space access to the PMU is un-common or even undesirable. Section VIII further discusses the implications of this. By configuring MDCR EL3.TPM and 

PMUSERENR EL0.EN , accesses from EL0 trigger synchronous traps to EL3. Although lower ELs can intercept these accesses, this is con-sistent with SGX, where the OS can interrupt ENCLU execution (e.g., via breakpoints). Thus, requiring OS cooperation does not weaken the threat model, as availability is not guaranteed in SGX either. Enclaves executing in R-EL0 use the same mechanism to implement ENCLU . To prevent interception by the RMM, we disable PMU trapping at EL2 by clearing MDCR EL2.TPM 

and, if supported, HDFGRTR EL2.PMCCNTR EL0 . Since these registers are core-local, configuring them before enclave entry prevents the RMM from modifying them at runtime. With this, 

ENCLU calls of an enclave cannot be intercepted by the RMM and are always routed to El3, which is important since the RMM is untrusted. Once the registers are configured, we can use the gadget shown in Listing 1 to trap execution from EL0 to EL3 atomically. The CCX toolchain is adapted to invoke this gadget in place of ENCLU or CPUID . For ENCLS calls originating from a privileged context (i.e., EL2 or EL1), the same gadget could be used. However, from these EL we can also use the default kernel SMC interface to emulate both ENCLS and CPUID calls, which CCX does for simplicity. 

CCX-Core. The CCX-Core executes SGX microprograms upon receiving ENCLS or ENCLU traps. Since EL3 cannot be interrupted by lower ELs, execution is atomic from their per-spective. SGX microprograms perform various cryptographic operations, such as EINIT for enclave signature verifica-tion and measurement validation, EWB /ELDB/U for encrypting swapped pages, and EREPORT /EGETKEY to generate crypto-graphic reports and keys. In CCX, we implement these func-tions using the mbed TLS library [1], which TF-A [4] also uses by default. Furthermore, some SGX data structures require adaptation due to architectural differences. For example, the SECS struc-ture must reflect Arm-specific context management, while 

TCS is adapted to Arm’s thread-local storage model (e.g., 

TPIDR EL0 instead of segmentation registers). SGX enclaves transition execution to the OS upon receiv-ing interrupts. With Arm CCA, this would normally involve forwarding execution to RMM, then to the NW OS (routed through EL3). However, to maintain a minimal trust boundary, we do not trust the RMM (see Section III). Instead, we lever-age the firmware to direct all external interrupts to EL3 using the SCR EL3 register. Since this register always takes priority over any interrupt routing defined by lower ELs, the RMM cannot interfere with this. Internally triggered exceptions (e.g., page faults) generally cannot be routed to EL3. To facilitate the switch without trusting the RMM, each enclave includes a trampoline page in its text segment that contains exception handlers. The exception table base register ( VBAR EL1 ) is set to this page when entering the enclave. Each exception handler on this page executes a switch to CCX in EL3, which then forwards the exceptions to the NW OS. The NW OS exception link register is also set to an entry point in the U-App, where an ERESUME is executed to continue the enclave execution afterward. Furthermore, as described above, all relevant EL2 registers are cleared before enclave entry, and since they are core-local, they cannot be modified by the RMM at runtime. With this, exceptions cannot be routed to the RMM instead and are always taken to EL3. 

CCA-Backend. With the EPC residing in realm memory, protected pages are accessed and executed there. Enclave entry via EENTER or ERESUME requires setting up a corresponding exception return context, which is handled by the CCA-Backend. To do this, we use TF-A’s built-in functionality to create a new CPU context on the first entry of a TCS and save it to its state save area. This context is then reused for each subsequent entry using this TCS. Note that unlike Arm, SGX maintains a unified CPU state across enclave transitions. To emulate this, CCX copies rele-vant registers (e.g., general-purpose and memory-management registers) into the enclave context on entry and restores them on exit, preserving SGX semantics. 

B. CCX-Toolchain 

Most SGX applications rely on the SGX SDK, which is tailored for x64 CPUs and contains extensive platform-specific code. Adapting the SDK for CCX is hence necessary. Al-though this requires substantial engineering effort, the details are beyond the scope of this paper. In brief, we replace SDK enclave ENCLU calls with our custom gadget and adjust all assembly code in the SDK for Arm. Instances where the SDK handles Intel-specific behavior (e.g., thread-local storage or context save states) are revised to reflect the specifics of the Arm architecture. To assess the effort required to implement these adaptations, we compute the SLOC modified in the SGX SDK using diff , which amounts to approximately 6,000 new lines of code. The SGX kernel module, which is part of the CCX-Toolchain, must reflect these adaptations. Here, we evaluate these changes to approximately 650 SLOC. SGX applications may also directly invoke the wrappers for ENCLS 

and ENCLU calls. To support this, we extend GCC to provide the corresponding gadgets when compiling for Arm targets. These wrappers internally use the custom gadget to perform the necessary calls. 7TABLE II SAMPLE SGX SDK APPS PORTED TO CCX.       

> Name Functionality
> SampleEnclave Contains test cases for ECALL/OCALL function-alities CXX17SGXDemo Contains test cases for modern C++ runtime fea-tures in the enclave LocalAttestation Local attestation between enclaves SealUnseal Uses the enclave’s sealing keys to secure, store, and retrieve data SampleAEXNotify Test case for AEX-Notify

VI. E VALUATION 

We now evaluate how CCX meets the goals defined in Sec-tion IV. First, we assess its functional correctness by verifying adherence to the SGX specification and by testing real-world applications. Next, we analyze performance using micro- and macro-benchmarks. Finally, we evaluate the security impact, focusing on the TCB. 

A. Goal 1: Functionality 

Functional Correctness. At the time of writing, no Arm CCA hardware is publicly available. Therefore, to evaluate the functional correctness of CCX, we build a feature-complete prototype for the QEMU emulator (version 9.2.3) with support for Arm CCA, running a full CCA firmware stack (TF-A version 2.10.0 and RMM version 0.4.0), and Linux (version 6.2.0). In this environment, we can then execute the sample applications of the Intel SGX SDK to assess CCX’s functional correctness. These apps demonstrate typical SGX enclave behaviors and cover the different enclave functions. We se-lect a representative subset that covers all SGX microcode functionalities, listed in Table II. SampleEnclave contains a list of ECALLs and OCALLs, testing the correctness of parameter and return value forwarding on enclave entry and exits, multithreading, and the SGX2-specific features. 

CXX17SGXDemo tests whether the enclave runtime provided by the SGX-SDK correctly implements the C ++ runtime. Next, 

LocalAttestation checks a local attestation setup between two enclaves, each generating attestation reports to be verified by the other enclave. When the attestation is successful, the enclaves use the SGX-SDK’s crypto library (based on OpenSSL) to establish a secure channel to exchange messages. 

SealUnseal validates sealing and unsealing by having two enclaves exchange sealed data. Finally, SampleAEXNotify 

checks whether AEX-Notify is implemented correctly. We cross-compiled these apps using the CCX toolchain without any source code modifications. Upon execution, they showed no difference in behavior compared to their SGX versions, indicating the correctness of our approach. 

Real-World Applicability. To evaluate CCX on real-world server-side workloads, we use it to deploy several open-source SGX enclaves on Arm. Table III lists the chosen apps and describes their functionality. SGX-kmeans runs the k-means al-gorithm on a set of points securely inside an enclave. TaLoS is a patch of LibreSSL, moving all security-critical cryptographic operations to an SGX enclave [18]. The resulting library can then be used as a drop-in replacement for the default LibreSSL           

> TABLE III OPEN -SOURCE SGX APPS PORTED TO ARM VIA CCX.
> Name Functionality
> SGX-kmeans [9] Secure kmeans clustering TaLoS [18] LibreSSL patch using SGX to protect cryp-tography SGX SQLite [10] SGX protected SQLite TrustFL [92] Secure federated learning secure-analytics-sgx [28] Secure Data Analytics

library. We deploy TaLoS with CCX by using it as the SSL library of nginx [71], which was, in turn, used to host a web server. Next, SGX SQLite is a port of SQLite that protects its database memory with an SGX enclave. TrustFL [92] is a trusted federated learning framework whose test cases we executed. Lastly, secure-analytics-sgx performs privacy-preserving analytics in an SGX enclave [28]. We successfully ported, executed, and tested all applications using CCX. We also run the same tests on actual SGX hardware and compare the results, which show no differences in behavior. Again, this experiment demonstrates CCX’s func-tional correctness for real-world workloads. 

B. Goal 2: Performance 

While emulators can be used to demonstrate the functional correctness of CCX, using them to evaluate its performance is not viable, as both QEMU and FVPs are not cycle ac-curate [61], [93], [82], reducing the meaningfulness of any results. To evaluate CCX’s performance, we hence imple-mented it on a Nitrogen8M development board, running an NXP i.MX8M Armv8-A CPU (not supporting CCA) based on a quad-core Arm Cortex-A53 running at 1.5 GHz and 2GB of RAM. Here, the prototype is built on TF-A version 2.2 and Linux 6.1.22. The typical approach used in recent work is to implement dummy functions that mimic the functionality of the firmware functions for the novel hardware features [93]. As this has proven to give the most accurate results, we also fol-low this approach. To this end, we reimplement the exact GPT structure in the board’s TF-A, which emulates the assignment and unassignment of GPT pages. Accesses to GPT registers are replaced with accesses to debug registers to emulate the access times. With this, we evaluate CCX’s performance using microbenchmarks for the ENCLS and ENCLU microprograms, and run NBench [11] to assess broader performance. 

Microbenchmarks. For the microbenchmarks, we execute each microprogram 100 times in CCX and calculate the average execution times. We note that the variance is omitted since it was negligible across runs. To accurately measure the timings, we use the Linux kernel’s ktime API for ENCLS calls, and the standard library’s clock interface ( clock gettime )with the real-time clock for ENCLU instructions. Comparing the results of our microbenchmarks with those of related approaches (e.g., VSGX [94] or N ESTED SGX [86]) or native SGX is challenging. For example, N ESTED SGX could directly compare its performance to VSGX by running both approaches on the same CPU, but since CCX is the first approach bringing SGX to Arm, no comparable design 8ECREATE  

> EADD
> EINIT
> EREMOVE
> EDGBRD
> EDBGWR
> EEXTEND
> EDLU/B
> EBLOCK
> EPA
> EWB
> ETRACK
> EAUG
> EMODPR
> EMODT
> EREPORT
> EGETKEY
> EENTER
> ERESUME
> EEXIT
> EACCEPT
> EMODPE
> EACCEPTCOPY
> EDECCSSA 100
> 1k
> 10k
> 100k
> 1M
> 10M
> Runtime in Nanoseconds Fig. 5. Results of the microbenchmarks for the enclave microprograms. The y-axis shows the runtime of each microprogram for CCX in nanoseconds on a logarithmic scale.

exists. Additionally, scaling the results across different CPUs is not a sound approach, as it would require accounting for the effects of various microarchitectural components (e.g., caches, TLBs, and branch predictors), which is infeasible. For these reasons, we avoid direct quantitative comparisons of the microbenchmark results. Figure 5 presents the results of our microbenchmarks, while Table VIII in the appendix reports the absolute values. As shown in the figure, some CCX instructions are computa-tionally more expensive than others. Notably, the ECREATE 

function is an obvious outlier, requiring over 15 ms to execute. This is primarily caused by creating a new GPT for the enclave used in the multi-GPT setup. Note that CCX naively sets up new GPTs from scratch, while related work has shown that with so-called shadow GPTs , the creation time can be substantially reduced [93]. However, as this would require additional logic, CCX intentionally sets up GPTs from scratch to keep the TCB minimal. Instructions related to cryptographic functions (e.g., page encryption and decryption, signature verification, and key derivation) are expensive, as in SGX. Cryptography is primar-ily used in two situations: enclave startup ( EADD , EEXTEND , and 

ECREATE ) and page swapping ( EWB and ELDB/U ). However, when using CCX, the need for the EWB and ELDB/U functions, and thereby, this bottleneck is removed, which has been cited for causing major performance issues on memory-expensive tasks [87]. Additionally, since enclave startup only happens once, we believe this overhead is negligible in practice. The round-trip time of entering and exiting an enclave can be calculated via the values of EENTER (15,153 ns) and 

EEXIT (2,334 ns), amounting to approximately 17.5 μs. Since enclaves must be exited and re-entered for system calls or to interact with their U-App, this overhead applies to any such interaction. However, we argue that the 17.5 μs overhead is minimal and does not significantly degrade performance for most workloads. 

NBench Benchmarking Tool. To evaluate the performance implications of CCX on a real-world application, we evaluate it using NBench [11] and an SGX-port of it [3], as these bench-marks are widely used in related work on SGX enclaves [40], [95], [94], [86], [55]. We first run the native NBench on the development board to establish a baseline. Then, we execute the SGX-port of NBench and compare the results, as shown on the left side of Figure 6. For reference, we also run both NBench and its SGX port on an Intel server with an Intel Xeon Silver 4509Y CPU and 128 GB of RAM. The results are shown on the right side of Figure 6. Overall, CCX achieves near-native performance, with two notable exceptions: the BITFIELD and FOURIER test cases show slower results under CCX. This is likely due to the custom standard library included in the SGX SDK, which sometimes uses different implementations than glibc. This means we experience performance gains when the SGX SDK includes more optimized implementations and performance losses when it lacks them. These two test cases rely heav-ily on certain mathematical operations (e.g., cos and sin ), where our implementations in the trusted standard library are apparently slower. Such performance drops could be addressed by optimizing these functions in future versions. On Intel hardware, we observe a significantly larger perfor-mance overhead, particularly for memory-intensive workloads such as STRING SORT . Our results are consistent with prior work evaluating sgx-nbench [86]. Generally, CCX’s perfor-mance is, in most cases, better or approximately equal to the performance of SGX. 

Comparison with Related Work. When excluding CCX benchmarks with high overhead from unoptimized standard library implementations, CCX enclaves incur approximately 1% overhead. In contrast, VSGX reports an average overhead of over 200% for NBench [94], while H YPER ENCLAVE and NESTED SGX show similar performance to CCX [55], [86]. Regarding Arm enclaves, S HELTER reports a performance overhead of 5.2–15% across different workloads [93], while NanoZone [64] reports a 20% overhead. The lowest overhead of 3% is reported by HiveTEE [48]. In summary, these results show that CCX’s performance is better or equal to existing SGX reimplementations and other enclave designs for intra-process isolation, making its application viable in a real-world setting. 9NUMERIC SORT   

> STRING SORT
> BITFIELD
> FP EMULATION
> FOURIER
> ASSIGNMENT
> IDEA
> HUFFMAN
> NEURAL NET
> LU DECOMPOSITION 0.00
> 0.25
> 0.50
> 0.75
> 1.00
> Normalized Runtime
> Native CCX
> NUMERIC SORT
> STRING SORT
> BITFIELD
> FP EMULATION
> FOURIER
> ASSIGNMENT
> IDEA
> HUFFMAN
> NEURAL NET
> LU DECOMPOSITION 0.00
> 0.25
> 0.50
> 0.75
> 1.00
> Normalized Runtime
> Native SGX

Fig. 6. Results of NBench. Each group on the x-axis corresponds to a benchmark, showing both the native and enclave versions. The y-axis shows the performance of each variant normalized to the native performance. The left graph shows the comparison for CCX on Arm hardware, while the right shows the results for SGX on Intel hardware. TABLE IV SLOC OF THE DIFFERENT CCX COMPONENTS .            

> Component SLOC CCX-Core 2,341
> CCA-Backend 337
> CPUID-Handler 120
> SMC/Trap-Handler 149
> EPC Management 28
> EPCM Management 56
> Crypto Management 48
> Multi GPT Management 106
> Utils 366
> Headers 911
> Total 4,462

TABLE V TCB OF RELATED APPROACHES .        

> Approach SLOC CCX 4,462
> NestedSGX [86] 5,500
> vSGX [94] 9,090
> HyperEnclave [55] 13,719

C. Goal 3: TCB Increase 

The core idea of CCX is to move the microprograms of Intel SGX into firmware. This requires adding a substantial amount of code to the firmware, which runs at the highest privilege level, thereby enlarging the system’s TCB. To evaluate the dimensions of these additions, we evaluate the SLOC added to the Monitor using cloc 2.0 cloc . Table IV summarizes how many SLOC were added by the different components. Because we reuse the mbedtls library already shipped with our version of TF-A, its SLOC is not counted toward CCX’s TCB. Building on the existing Monitor also allows us to leverage many features, such as context management, without increasing the TCB. In total, we add 4,462 SLOC for CCX. The TF-A implementation we used contains about 593k SLOC, of which approximately 143k SLOC are part of mbedtls. Therefore, with CCX, we increase the TCB by less than 1%. Table V compares this to related approaches. Since the H YPER ENCLAVE approach did not report its TCB in the original publication [55], we manually evaluated the TCB using cloc and the master branch of the H YPER ENCLAVE 

GitHub repository [5], only considering the ./src subfolder. Among SGX reimplementations, CCX introduces the smallest increase in TCB. This is especially significant since CCX implements the full SGX architecture, including the AEX-Notify extension. On the other hand, e.g., NESTED SGX, which is the closest in TCB increase, does not implement this extension. However, when the full TCB is considered, the results change. For CCX, as mentioned above, the entire TF-A must be considered as the TCB. Nonetheless, related approaches face similar challenges: N ESTED SGX extends the Linux Secure VM Service Modul [7] and VSGX builds on a Linux kernel. Because both tools run enclaves in AMD SEV VMs, they must also trust the AMD SP co-processor, which contains a separate OS [24]. In this sense, CCX arguably defines a smaller and clearer security boundary. Only H YPER ENCLAVE differs, as it contains a lightweight hypervisor that uses virtualization to provide enclave func-tionality. However, this approach is least directly comparable because it does not use hardware-based TEEs for the enclaves and therefore provides different security guarantees. VII. S ECURITY ANALYSIS 

The third goal of CCX is to provide security guarantees comparable to those of Intel SGX. To assess this, we analyze how CCX addresses known classes of SGX attacks, using the taxonomy and survey by Nilsson et al. [73] as a reference. We exclude hardware attacks, as they are out of scope. 

A. EPC Memory Safety 

Protection against Privileged System Components. While SGX guarantees that no untrusted software can access this information via the EPC, CCX achieves this isolation using the GPT. However, unlike SGX, where no other system software is trusted, CCX’s Monitor at EL3 is trusted and can access enclave memory, increasing CCX’s TCB. Normally, the RMM can also access realm (and thus enclave) memory, but CCX mitigates this risk through its multi-GPT approach, marking enclave pages as inaccessible in the GPT used by the RMM. Thus, only EL3 has access to enclave data, which is unavoidable because it controls the GPT. While both approaches rely on a privileged, trusted com-ponent (microcode in SGX and EL3 firmware in CCX), the 10 attack surfaces differ in practice. While some attacks against microcode have been demonstrated in the past [57], [21], such attacks are generally rare. On the other hand, firmware-level components such as EL3 are generally larger and more fre-quently targeted than CPU microcode, evidenced by the num-ber of vulnerabilities found in Monitor implementations [62]. Therefore, this may result in a higher practical risk despite similar conceptual trust assumptions. Nonetheless, since EL3 is, by design, the root of trust on Arm-based systems, it must be trusted when using the GPT. With this, CCX trusts only the minimal set of components required on Arm platforms. 

Memory Encryption. Intel SGX employs the Memory En-cryption Engine (MEE) to ensure EPC integrity and confiden-tiality [34]. Similarly, Arm CCA mandates memory encryp-tion for realm, root, and SW memory with FEAT RME [13], implemented by the so-called Memory Protection Engine 

(MPE). In addition to confidentiality, the MPE may perform integrity checks (correctness and freshness) on reads from encrypted memory. By default, the MPE uses a single per-boot encryption key for all realm memory, but FEAT MEC 

supports individual encryption contexts and keys for different memory regions. Although FEAT MEC is not yet supported by available hardware or QEMU, CCX can be extended to use it once supported, enabling per-enclave memory encryption keys. Therefore, this is only a temporary limitation. Additionally, the memory encryption in FEAT RME is sufficient to enable protection guarantees similar to SGX. CCA’s threat model explicitly considers some physical memory attacks, such as memory probing and DMA attacks, as well as side-channels like Rowhammer-style attacks [12]. While the protection against such attacks is implementation-defined, CCA defines clear guidelines for the guarantees required. However, there is no information about exact im-plementations due to the lack of real-world CCA hardware. Nonetheless, as SGX’s threat model is also rather ambiguous in this regard [34], no direct comparison is possible. 

TOCTOU Attacks Both SGX and CCX prevent TOCTOU attacks against the microprograms by enforcing a strict order-ing in their access semantics. Any critical information used by the microinstructions is first protected against untrusted access before processing. SGX achieves this by copying pages to its EPC, whereas CCX protects the underlying memory regions with the GPT. With this, CCX mitigates TOCTOU attacks within the scope of its microprogram execution. 

Cross-Enclave Protection. SGX uses the Page Miss Han-dler to prevent unauthorized access to EPC pages, ensuring that only the owning enclave can access them. In CCX, we use a multi-GPT approach [93] where an enclave’s pages are marked as accessible only in the GPT of the core currently executing the enclave. Any attempt to access another enclave’s memory thus results in a GPF. 

B. Control-Flow Attacks 

A major attack targeting Intel SGX is SGX-Step by van Bulck et al. [25]. Here, interrupts are configured so that untrusted software can interrupt the enclave after each in-struction, effectively enabling single-stepping. To mitigate this threat, CCX relies on the AEX-Notify feature [32], introduced for SGX, which mitigates such control-flow attacks without impacting overall system functionality. However, if this feature were to be proven insufficient, the firmware-based implemen-tation of CCX also offers the possibility to implement other defenses: Unlike SGX, CCX’s firmware-level implementation enables centralized control over interrupt delivery. With this, CCX can also either completely disable problematic interrupts or add a randomized delay before forwarding them to the NW OS for handling. However, since such an approach would alter the system’s expected behavior, these defenses would have to be carefully designed and are left for future research. 

C. Cache Attacks 

Intel SGX has been targeted by a wide range of cache at-tacks [42], [23], [68]. Since these are enabled by the platform’s cache architecture, cache attacks can only be fully prevented by using a different hardware architecture or by disabling caches for enclaves [23], which is usually ruled out due to the resulting performance overhead. CCX does not inherently mitigate cache-based side channels and inherits the platform’s underlying cache architecture, sim-ilar to SGX. While CCA hardware may introduce mitigations, their effectiveness remains to be validated once actual CCA hardware becomes available. 

D. Branch Prediction and Speculative Execution Attacks 

Intel CPUs do not clear the branch target buffer on context switches to or from enclaves [59], enabling attackers to infer fine-grained enclave control flow. Similarly, the branch predictor is also not cleared on the context switch, which BranchScope [36] and BlueThunder [49] exploit. Since Arm CPUs also contain similar branch predictors, this poses a threat to CCX enclaves. Furthermore, since Spectre [56] and Meltdown [63], research has shown that speculative execution can be used to attack SGX enclaves [29]. Arm CPUs have also been vulnerable to Spectre-like attacks [26], [46], again introducing a threat against CCX enclaves. CCX attempts to mitigate these threats in different ways. First, CCA hardware aims to mitigate such attacks, making the corresponding hardware features mandatory for its platforms (FEAT CSV3 ). Furthermore, CCX uses another upcoming mandatory Arm feature, FEAT SB , to add synchronization barriers at enclave entry and exit. However, it must be noted that it’s nearly impossible to make absolute statements about protection against such side-channel attacks, since most modern hardware countermeasures have proven insufficient over time, posing a threat to both Intel and Arm platforms. Nonetheless, if these hardware-based measures are proven insufficient, CCX enables other options: Its firmware-based de-sign enables highly flexible software-based protections against such attacks [45]. This flexibility represents a key advantage over SGX’s microcode-based design, where deploying new defenses is significantly more constrained. 11 VIII. D ISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS 

In this section, we reflect on the performance and security of CCX and discuss the potential limitations of our prototype. 

Invasiveness. Since CCX uses the multi-GPT architecture for enclave isolation, it does not interfere with any other existing firmware feature. Most importantly, realm VMs can run in parallel with CCX enclaves. In such a scenario, if a cVM is scheduled, the multi-GPT architecture enables the system GPT , which is used by the RMM and grants it full control over the cVMs. With this, CCX is completely compatible with the existing CCA architecture. Due to this non-invasiveness, implementing CCX on a system is no more invasive than adding any other new functionality to the firmware. However, a minor limitation arises from the ENCLU gadget, which requires disabling EL0 access to certain features. While this design still introduces some transparency issues, we believe the impact can be minimized by choosing features that are rarely used at EL0. PMU registers are rarely accessed directly from user space in standard workloads, making them a practical candidate for reuse in our design. 

Lack of CCA-enabled Hardware. As noted throughout the paper, a limitation of CCX is the lack of publicly available CCA-enabled hardware platforms for evaluation. Therefore, we instead used the approach of using an emulated functional prototype and a hardware-based performance prototype using replacements for missing hardware features. However, such an evaluation setup introduces some uncertainty about the real-world attributes of CCX, for example, when it comes to the performance overhead of memory encryption and its actual implications to security. Nonetheless, the approach we used for evaluation is used by virtually all existing CCA research [20]. 

Performance. Most CCX benchmarks run at near-native speed, except for cases that rely on less-optimized mathemat-ical functions. Replacing these with Arm-optimized versions should further improve performance in these cases. 

Security. Although SGX’s trust boundary appears smaller, CCX provides the minimum possible trust boundary on Arm platforms without introducing invasive changes. Given that the security of CCX enclaves depends on the CCX firmware, future efforts could formally verify it. This could be achieved using bounded model checking, which Arm also uses to prove the security of other firmware components [39], [88], [60]. Furthermore, while Intel’s microcode can be updated, we argue that CCX is easier to update because it is completely software-based. This makes it easier to apply mitigations for vulnerabilities or implement new features. Finally, the addition of CCX to the TF-A also increases the TCB of other system components requiring trust in EL3, such as the SW or cVMs. While we argue that the relative TCB increase of 1% is minimal, further verification of CCX would also reduce the risk introduced for these components. The lack of real-world Arm CCA hardware makes some aspects of our security analysis theoretical. While we trust that the hardware will comply with the CCA requirements, we currently have no way to empirically verify this aspect. 

Remote Attestation. CCX does not yet support remote attestation due to its reliance on Intel’s provisioning and verification architecture [34]. Solutions like VSGX can cir-cumvent this issue by leveraging the existing AMD SEV remote attestation ecosystem. However, there is currently no such ecosystem for Arm CCA. This lack of an attestation mechanism is also why related work on Arm enclaves, such as S HELTER [93], implements only local attestation, leaving remote attestation as future work. However, CCX goes a step further by already offering a path to design a remote attestation architecture for it once CCA hardware becomes publicly available. IX. R ELATED WORK 

The main goal of CCX is to enable the deployment of existing SGX applications on Arm systems without requiring 

any source-code-level modifications, avoiding the expensive person-hours otherwise needed to port the app while not com-promising on usability, performance, or security. Therefore, we analyzed existing approaches that implement enclaves for Arm and x64 to conduct a gap analysis. Table VI shows the results. Host-Level Enclaves refers to the ability for the platform’s host (i.e., hypervisor or OS) to spawn enclaves. We consider a design Non-Invasive when its implementation does not require significant changes to the system’s architecture. Finally, a design has a Minimal TCB if it requires trusting only the minimal set of software and firmware needed to provide isolation. For Arm, several approaches implement enclaves enabling inter-process isolation [93], [75], [44], [90]. However, as described above, the coarse-grained nature of inter-process isolation does not enable the minimal trust boundaries offered by intra-process isolation. Nonetheless, there are other approaches that implement intra-process isolation for Arm-based systems. K OMODO [37] aims to create enclaves for Armv7-A CPUs using TrustZone and formal verification. For this, it requires replacing the existing EL3 Monitor with its minimal K OMODO Monitor. Since on Arm the Monitor is usually expected to handle other features (e.g., PSCI, SCMI, CCA), using KOMODO 

in a real-world setting is highly invasive. S ANCTUARY [22] also creates user-space enclaves, relying on the TZC-400 to restrict access to S ANCTUARY resources to specific CPU cores dedicated to S ANCTUARY apps. Since these cores are no longer available to the NW OS, this approach is also invasive. It also partially disables caches for enclaves, resulting in a significant performance overhead. Finally, AnyTEE [27] uses virtualization to implement software-defined TEEs in the NW. AnyTEE also showcases a minimal SGX runtime that is incomplete and omits most complex features. Moreover, this requires replacing the hypervisor, making the approach invasive. Furthermore, using NW virtualization results in a significant TCB, as all firmware of other security states is trusted, and it also misses out on any hardware protection offered by actual TEEs. 12 TABLE VI COMPARATIVE TABLE OF RELATED WORK . A FULL CIRCLE INDICATES COMPLETE , AND A HALF CIRCLE PARTIAL SUPPORT FOR A FEATURE .                                                           

> Tool Arch Intra-Process SGX Support Host-Level Enclaves Non-Invasive Minimal TCB Proctection Overhead
> KOMODO [37] Arm TrustZone+Verification <3% SANCTUARY [22] Arm TrustZone –SHELTER [93] Arm GPT 5.2-15% TARNHELM [75] Arm TrustZone >300% TRUST SHADOW [44] Arm TrustZone 8-137% AnyTEE [27] Arm Virtualization <3% NanoZone [64] Arm GPT 20% UIEE [90] Arm TrustZone 2.65% HiveTEE [48] Arm GPT+MTE <3% FlexClave [97] Arm GPT <10% CCAegis [65] Arm GPT 0.8-17%
> VSGX [94] AMD x64 SEV 221% HYPER ENCLAVE [5] x64 Virtualization <5% NESTED SGX [86] AMD x64 SEV+VMPLs 1.3%
> CCX Arm GPT 1%

Similar to CCX, the concurrent works of NanoZone [64], FlexClave [97], and CCAegis [65] also reuse the GPT to enable fine-grained intra-process isolation. However, all of them propose custom programming models and development environments. Since most apps seeking intra-process isolation currently rely on SGX, any such app must be extensively modified to use these approaches, resulting in expensive de-velopment costs. This is also why using more flexible TEE SDKs (such as Open Enclave [8]) is insufficient, as the existing enclave must still be adapted. On the other hand, CCX brings SGX’s mature design and programming model to Arm CPUs, enabling straightforward migration of SGX apps. Alongside these Arm-targeting approaches, some x64-targeting approaches actually succeed in running SGX en-claves on other platforms, making them highly related to CCX. These approaches usually target AMD and rely on virtualization [94], [55], [86], but this introduces trade-offs: 

> V

SGX [94] creates new SEV cVMs for each enclave, each containing a small Linux kernel, thereby introducing signif-icant performance overhead, violating our performance goal, and making this approach generally unfavorable. On the other hand, H YPER ENCLAVE [55] uses a specialized hypervisor to isolate enclaves. Similar to AnyTEE, this limits the hardware protection of enclave pages, makes this system invasive, and, on Arm, would also lead to a large TCB. Finally, N EST -

> ED

SGX [86] uses VMPLs within an SEV cVM to control enclaves, but cannot spawn user-space enclaves in the host, violating our compatibility goal. Therefore, porting these ap-proaches to Arm CCA would fail to sufficiently fulfill our goals. In addition to these research designs, Amazon Web Ser-vices offers Nitro Enclaves [15], which rely on virtualization via the Nitro Hypervisor . In addition to the aforementioned issues with virtualization, it is not compatible with SGX, requiring source code changes to port enclaves to it. In general, reliance on virtualization does not accurately re-flect the SGX concept, whereas CCX provides a more accurate SGX implementation built into Arm’s firmware. While this is also motivated by the inability to use the hypervisor-level for this task on Arm platforms (see Section IV), the firmware on Arm systems is more closely related to the x64 microcode than to the hypervisor privilege level. This gives CCX complete control over the hardware, allowing maximum flexibility in using the TEE. Within x64 platforms (i.e., AMD), approaches for porting the toolchain benefit from the existing SGX SDK, kernel driver, and microcode, making it easier to support SGX library OSes like G RAMINE [83], [84] or O CCULUM [80] with minimal modification. However, as these library OSes are developed for x64, porting them to CCX requires additional engineering effort and is left as future work. In addition to these primary-related approaches, other recent papers highlight the versatility of Arm CCA hardware prim-itives across diverse applications. RContainer [96] leverages CCA to isolate container runtimes, B ARRI CCA DE [78] to isolate drivers while C AGE [85] ACAI [82] and P ORTAL [77] use the GPT to isolate accelerators. Finally, H ITCH HIKER [91] leverages GPT-protected enclave-like environments for secure logging of compromised OSes. Finally, on RISC-V, S ANCTUM [35] and C URE [19] achieve SGX-comparable enclave security by augmenting the RISC-V architecture, while K EYSTONE [58] implements a framework for custom TEE deployment without hardware modification. X. C ONCLUSION 

In this work, we presented CCX, the first framework that brings the mature design of SGX’s intra-process isolation to Arm platforms. By enabling unmodified Intel SGX applica-tions to run on top of it, CCX also enables straightforward porting of the existing ecosystem of SGX applications to mod-ern Arm systems. CCX transparently emulates SGX microcode in Arm firmware and reroutes all SGX-related instructions at both the application and OS levels to it. We implemented CCX for the QEMU emulator and a Nitrogen8M development board, showing that real-world SGX applications execute with near-native performance while providing security guarantees comparable to Intel SGX. In the future, its firmware-based design enables flexible mitigation of potential vulnerabilities and easy extension of CCX with new enclave features. 13 REFERENCES [1] Mbed TLS . https://github .com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [2] Realm Management Monitor specification . https://documentation-service .arm .com/static/69cb945ac1586b7c59b1c00c?token=. Accessed: 2026-05-06. [3] The nbench benchmark ported to SGX. . https://github .com/utds3lab/ sgx-nbench. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [4] Trusted Firmware-A . https://github .com/ARM-software/arm-trusted-firmware. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [5] HyperEnclave. https://github .com/asterinas/hyperenclave. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [6] Linux-SGX. https://github .com/intel/linux-sgx. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [7] Linux SVSM (Secure VM Service Module). https://github .com/ AMDESE/linux-svsm. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [8] Open Enclave SDK. https://github .com/openenclave/openenclave. Ac-cessed: 2025-08-25. [9] sgx-kmeans. https://github .com/dsc-sgx/sgx-kmeans. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [10] SGX SQLite. https://github .com/yerzhan7/SGX SQLite. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [11] NBench. https://www .math .utah .edu/ ∼mayer/linux/bmark .html, 2017. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [12] Arm CCA Security Model 1.0. https://documentation-service .arm .com/ static/610aaec33d73a34b640e333b?token=, 2021. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [13] Arm Realm Management Extension (RME) System Architecture. https: //developer .arm .com/documentation/den0129/latest/, 2023. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [14] Amazon Web Services. AWS & ARM Partnership. https:// www .arm .com/partners/aws, 2022. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [15] Amazon Web Services. The Security Design of the AWS Nitro System: AWS Whitepaper. https://docs .aws .amazon .com/pdfs/whitepapers/ latest/security-design-of-aws-nitro-system/security-design-of-aws-nitro-system .pdf, 2024. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [16] AMD. Strengthening VM isolation with integrity protection and more. 

White Paper , 2020. [17] Ittai Anati, Shay Gueron, Simon Johnson, and Vincent Scarlata. Inno-vative technology for cpu based attestation and sealing. In International Workshop on Hardware and Architectural Support for Security and Privacy (HASP) , 2013. [18] Aublin, Pierre-Louis and Kelbert, Florian and O’keeffe, Dan and Muthukumaran, Divya and Priebe, Christian and Lind, Joshua and Krahn, Robert and Fetzer, Christof and Eyers, David and Pietzuch, Peter. TaLoS: Efficient TLS Termination Inside SGX Enclaves for Existing Applications. https://github .com/lsds/TaLoS, 2017. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [19] Raad Bahmani, Ferdinand Brasser, Ghada Dessouky, Patrick Jauernig, Matthias Klimmek, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, and Emmanuel Stapf. CURE: A Security Architecture with CUstomizable and Resilient Enclaves. In 

USENIX Security Symposium , 2021. [20] Andrin Bertschi and Shweta Shinde. OPENCCA: An Open Framework to Enable Arm CCA Research. In ieee-eurospw , 2025. [21] Pietro Borrello, Catherine Easdon, Martin Schwarzl, Roland Czerny, and Michael Schwarz. CustomProcessingUnit: Reverse Engineering and Customization of Intel Microcode. In IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW) , 2023. [22] Ferdinand Brasser, David Gens, Patrick Jauernig, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, and Emmanuel Stapf. SANCTUARY: ARMing TrustZone with User-space Enclaves. In Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2019. [23] Ferdinand Brasser, Urs M¨ uller, Alexandra Dmitrienko, Kari Kostiainen, Srdjan Capkun, and Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi. Software Grand Exposure: SGX Cache Attacks Are Practical. In USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT) , 2017. [24] Robert Buhren, Christian Werling, and Jean-Pierre Seifert. Insecure until proven updated: Analyzing AMD sev’s remote attestation. In ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , 2019. [25] Jo Van Bulck, Frank Piessens, and Raoul Strackx. SGX-Step: A Practical Attack Framework for Precise Enclave Execution Control. In Workshop on System Software for Trusted Execution (SysTEX) , 2017. [26] Claudio Canella, Jo Van Bulck, Michael Schwarz, Moritz Lipp, Ben-jamin von Berg, Philipp Ortner, Frank Piessens, Dmitry Evtyushkin, and Daniel Gruss. A Systematic Evaluation of Transient Execution Attacks and Defenses. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2019. [27] David Cerdeira, Jos´ e Martins, Nuno Santos, and Sandro Pinto. AnyTEE: An Open and Interoperable Software Defined TEE Framework. IEEE Access , 2025. [28] Swarup Chandra, Vishal Karande, Zhiqiang Lin, Latifur Khan, Murat Kantarcioglu, and Bhavani Thuraisingham. Securing Data Analytics on SGX with Randomization. In European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORICS) , 2017. [29] Guoxing Chen, Sanchuan Chen, Yuan Xiao, Yinqian Zhang, Zhiqiang Lin, and Ten-Hwang Lai. SgxPectre: Stealing Intel Secrets From SGX Enclaves via Speculative Execution. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) , 2020. [30] Pau-Chen Cheng, Wojciech Ozga, Enriquillo Valdez, Salman Ahmed, Zhongshu Gu, Hani Jamjoom, Hubertus Franke, and James Bottomley. Intel TDX Demystified: A Top-Down Approach. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) , 56(9), 2024. [31] Graeme Connell, Vivian Fang, Rolfe Schmidt, Emma Dauterman, and Raluca Ada Popa. Secret Key Recovery in a Global-Scale End-to-End Encryption System. In Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) , 2024. [32] Scott Constable, Jo Van Bulck, Xiang Cheng, Yuan Xiao, Cedric Xing, Ilya Alexandrovich, Taesoo Kim, Frank Piessens, Mona Vij, and Mark Silberstein. AEX-Notify: Thwarting Precise Single-Stepping Attacks through Interrupt Awareness for Intel SGX Enclaves. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2023. [33] Cosmian. Technology. https://cosmian .com/technology/, 2024. Ac-cessed: 2025-08-25. [34] Victor Costan and Srinivas Devadas. Intel SGX Explained. Technical report, IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2016. https://eprint .iacr .org/ 2016/086. [35] Victor Costan, Ilia A. Lebedev, and Srinivas Devadas. Sanctum: Minimal Hardware Extensions for Strong Software Isolation. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2016. [36] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Ryan Riley, Nael B. Abu-Ghazaleh, and Dmitry Ponomarev. BranchScope: A New Side-Channel Attack on Directional Branch Predictor. In Conference on Architectural Support for Program-ming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS) , 2018. [37] Andrew Ferraiuolo, Andrew Baumann, Chris Hawblitzel, and Bryan Parno. Komodo: Using verification to disentangle secure-enclave hard-ware from software. In Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2017. [38] Flashbots. Block Building inside SGX. https://writings .flashbots .net/ block-building-inside-sgx#our-sepolia-sgx-builder, 2023. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [39] Anthony C. J. Fox, Gareth Stockwell, Shale Xiong, Hanno Becker, Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, and Nathan Chong. A Verification Methodology for the Arm® Confidential Computing Architecture: From a Secure Specification to Safe Implementations. ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA) , 2023. [40] Yangchun Fu, Erick Bauman, Raul Quinonez, and Zhiqiang Lin. SGX-LAPD: Thwarting Controlled Side Channel Attacks via Enclave Ver-ifiable Page Faults. In Symposium on Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection (RAID) , 2017. [41] Google. Tau VM: the first Google Compute Engine VM running on an ARM chip. https://cloud .google .com/blog/products/compute/tau-t2a-is-first-compute-engine-vm-on-an-arm-chip, 2022. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [42] Johannes G¨ otzfried, Moritz Eckert, Sebastian Schinzel, and Tilo M¨ uller. Cache Attacks on Intel SGX. In ACM European Workshop on System Security (EuroSec) , 2017. [43] Grand View Research. ARM-Based Servers Market Summary. https://www .grandviewresearch .com/industry-analysis/arm-based-servers-market-report, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08-27. [44] Le Guan, Peng Liu, Xinyu Xing, Xinyang Ge, Shengzhi Zhang, Meng Yu, and Trent Jaeger. TrustShadow: Secure Execution of Unmodified Applications with ARM TrustZone. In ACM International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services (MobiSys) , 2017. [45] Lorenz Hetterich, Markus Bauer, Michael Schwarz, and Christian Rossow. Switchpoline: A Software Mitigation for Spectre-BTB and Spectre-BHB on ARMv8. In ACM Symposium on Information, Com-puter and Communications Security (ASIACCS) , 2024. [46] Lorenz Hetterich and Michael Schwarz. Branch Different - Spectre Attacks on Apple Silicon. In Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment (DIMVA) , 2022. 

14 [47] Matthew Hoekstra, Reshma Lal, Pradeep Pappachan, Vinay Phegade, and Juan del Cuvillo. Using innovative instructions to create trustwor-thy software solutions. In International Workshop on Hardware and Architectural Support for Security and Privacy (HASP) , 2013. [48] Haoyang Huang and Fengwei Zhangy. HiveTEE: Scalable and Fine-grained Isolated Domains with RME and MTE Co-assisted. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , 2026. [49] Tianlin Huo, Xiaoni Meng, Wenhao Wang, Chunliang Hao, Pei Zhao, Jian Zhai, and Mingshu Li. Bluethunder: A 2-level Directional Predictor Based Side-Channel Attack against SGX. IACR Transactions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems , 2020(1), 2020. [50] Intel. Intel® Software Guard Extensions (Intel® SGX). https: //cdrdv2-public .intel .com/671581/intel-sgx-developer-guide .pdf, 2018. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [51] Intel. 11th generation intel® core™ processors. https://cdrdv2 .intel .com/ v1/dl/getContent/634648, 2020. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [52] Intel. Intel SGX Protects German Electronic Patient Records. https://www .intel .com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/intel-sgx-protects-german-electronic-patient-records .html#gs .heuo6x, 2021. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [53] Intel. Microsoft Protects $25B in Customer Payments. https://www .intel .com/content/www/us/en/security/resources/microsoft-azure-confidential-computing-brief .html, 2023. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [54] Intel. Securing Your Trust Boundary with Intel SGX and Intel TDX. https://www .intel .com/content/www/us/en/content-details/ 816053/securing-your-trust-boundary-with-intel-sgx-and-intel-tdx .html?DocID=816053, 2024. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [55] Yuekai Jia, Shuang Liu, Wenhao Wang, Yu Chen, Zhengde Zhai, Shoumeng Yan, and Zhengyu He. HyperEnclave: An Open and Cross-platform Trusted Execution Environment. In USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) , 2022. [56] Paul Kocher, Jann Horn, Anders Fogh, Daniel Genkin, Daniel Gruss, Werner Haas, Mike Hamburg, Moritz Lipp, Stefan Mangard, Thomas Prescher, Michael Schwarz, and Yuval Yarom. Spectre Attacks: Ex-ploiting Speculative Execution. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) , 2019. [57] Philipp Koppe, Benjamin Kollenda, Marc Fyrbiak, Christian Kison, Robert Gawlik, Christof Paar, and Thorsten Holz. Reverse Engineering x86 Processor Microcode. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2017. [58] Dayeol Lee, David Kohlbrenner, Shweta Shinde, Krste Asanovic, and Dawn Song. Keystone: an open framework for architecting trusted execution environments. In European Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys) , 2020. [59] Sangho Lee, Ming-Wei Shih, Prasun Gera, Taesoo Kim, Hyesoon Kim, and Marcus Peinado. Inferring Fine-grained Control Flow Inside SGX Enclaves with Branch Shadowing. In USENIX Security Symposium ,2017. [60] Xupeng Li, Xuheng Li, Christoffer Dall, Ronghui Gu, Jason Nieh, Yousuf Sait, and Gareth Stockwell. Design and Verification of the Arm Confidential Compute Architecture. In Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) , 2022. [61] Hans Liljestrand, Thomas Nyman, Kui Wang, Carlos Chinea Perez, Jan-Erik Ekberg, and N. Asokan. PAC it up: Towards Pointer Integrity using ARM Pointer Authentication. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2019. [62] Christian Lindenmeier, Mathias Payer, and Marcel Busch. EL3XIR: Fuzzing COTS Secure Monitors. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2024. [63] Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Gruss, Thomas Prescher, Werner Haas, Anders Fogh, Jann Horn, Stefan Mangard, Paul Kocher, Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom, and Mike Hamburg. Meltdown: Reading Kernel Memory from User Space. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2018. [64] Shiqi Liu, Yongpeng Gao, Mingyang Zhang, and Jie Wang. NanoZone: Scalable, Efficient, and Secure Memory Protection for Arm CCA. arXiv ,2025. [65] Shiqi Liu, Zhouqi Jiang, Jie Wang, Wei Zhou, Kun Sun, Zhaohui Chen, and Yulai Xie. More granular, less trust: Enforcing intra-process isolation with arm cca in an untrusted management environment. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , 20:12507–12522, 2025. [66] Frank McKeen, Ilya Alexandrovich, Alex Berenzon, Carlos V. Rozas, Hisham Shafi, Vedvyas Shanbhogue, and Uday R. Savagaonkar. In-novative instructions and software model for isolated execution. In 

International Workshop on Hardware and Architectural Support for Security and Privacy (HASP) , 2013. [67] Microsoft. Azure Virtual Machines with Ampere Altra ARM-based processors generally available. https://azure .microsoft .com/en-us/ blog/azure-virtual-machines-with-ampere-altra-arm-based-processors-generally-available/, 2022. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [68] Ahmad Moghimi, Gorka Irazoqui, and Thomas Eisenbarth. CacheZoom: How SGX Amplifies the Power of Cache Attacks. In Conference on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems (CHES) , 2017. [69] Mozilla. Privacy-preserving digital ads infrastructure: An overview of Anonym’s technology. https://blog .mozilla .org/en/products/anonym-technology-overview/, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [70] Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, Nick Spinale, Gareth Stockwell, and Hugo J. M. Vincent. Confidential Computing - a brave new world. In 

International Symposium on Secure and Private Execution Environment Design (SEED) , 2021. [71] NGINX. nginx. https://nginx .org/en/, 2024. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [72] Tu Dinh Ngoc, Bao Bui, Stella Bitchebe, Alain Tchana, Valerio Schi-avoni, Pascal Felber, and Daniel Hagimont. Everything You Should Know About Intel SGX Performance on Virtualized Systems. ACM on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems (POMACS) , 2019. [73] Alexander Nilsson, Pegah Nikbakht Bideh, and Joakim Brorsson. ASurvey of Published Attacks on Intel SGX. Technical report, arXiv, 2020. https://arxiv .org/abs/2006 .13598. [74] Sandro Pinto and Nuno Santos. Demystifying Arm TrustZone: A Comprehensive Survey. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) , 51(6), 2019. [75] Davide Quarta, Michele Ianni, Aravind Machiry, Yanick Fratantonio, Eric Gustafson, Davide Balzarotti, Martina Lindorfer, Giovanni Vigna, and Christopher Kruegel. Tarnhelm: Isolated, Transparent & Confiden-tial Execution of Arbitrary Code in ARM’s TrustZone. In Research on Offensive and Defensive Techniques in the Context of Man At The End (MATE) Attacks , 2021. [76] Kaveh Razavi, Ben Gras, Erik Bosman, Bart Preneel, Cristiano Giuf-frida, and Herbert Bos. Flip Feng Shui: Hammering a needle in the software stack. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2016. [77] Fan Sang, Jaehyuk Lee, Xiaokuan Zhang, and Taesoo Kim. Portal: Fast and secure device access with arm cca for modern arm mobile system-on-chips (socs). In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) ,2025. [78] Matti Schulze, Christian Lindenmeier, and Jonas R¨ ockl. BarriCCAde: Isolating Closed-Source Drivers with ARM CCA. In IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy Workshops (EuroS&PW) , 2024. [79] Mark Seaborn and Thomas Dullien. Exploiting the DRAM rowhammer bug to gain kernel privileges. https://googleprojectzero .blogspot .com/ 2015/03/exploiting-dram-rowhammer-bug-to-gain .html, 2015. [80] Youren Shen, Hongliang Tian, Yu Chen, Kang Chen, Runji Wang, Yi Xu, Yubin Xia, and Shoumeng Yan. Occlum: Secure and Efficient Multitasking Inside a Single Enclave of Intel SGX. In Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS) , 2020. [81] Signal. Technology preview: Private contact discovery for Signal. https: //signal .org/blog/private-contact-discovery/, 2017. Accessed: 2025-08-25. [82] Supraja Sridhara, Andrin Bertschi, Benedict Schl¨ uter, Mark Kuhne, Fabio Aliberti, and Shweta Shinde. ACAI: Protecting Accelerator Execution with Arm Confidential Computing Architecture. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2024. [83] Chia-Che Tsai, Kumar Saurabh Arora, Nehal Bandi, Bhushan Jain, William Jannen, Jitin John, Harry A. Kalodner, Vrushali Kulkarni, Daniela Oliveira, and Donald E. Porter. Cooperation and security isolation of library OSes for multi-process applications. In European Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys) , 2014. [84] Chia-Che Tsai, Donald E. Porter, and Mona Vij. Graphene-SGX: A Practical Library OS for Unmodified Applications on SGX. In USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) , 2017. [85] Chenxu Wang, Fengwei Zhang, Yunjie Deng, Kevin Leach, Jiannong Cao, Zhenyu Ning, Shoumeng Yan, and Zhengyu He. CAGE: Comple-menting Arm CCA with GPU Extensions. In Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2024. [86] Wenhao Wang, Linke Song, Benshan Mei, Shuang Liu, Shijun Zhao, Shoumeng Yan, XiaoFeng Wang, Dan Meng, and Rui Hou. The Road to Trust: Building Enclaves within Confidential VMs. In Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2025. [87] Newton Carlos Will and Carlos Alberto Maziero. Intel Software Guard Extensions Applications: A Survey. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) ,55(14s), 2023. 

15 [88] Tong Wu, Shale Xiong, Edoardo Manino, Gareth Stockwell, and Lu-cas C. Cordeiro. Verifying Components of Arm ® Confidential Com-puting Architecture with ESBMC. In Static Analysis Symposium , 2024. [89] Yuan Xiao, Xiaokuan Zhang, Yinqian Zhang, and Radu Teodorescu. One bit flips, one cloud flops: cross-VM row hammer attacks and privilege escalation. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2016. [90] Huaiyu Yan, Zhen Ling, Xuandong Chen, Xinhui Shao, Yier Jin, Haobo Li, Ming Yang, Ping Jiang, and Junzhou Luo. UIEE: Secure and Efficient User-space Isolated Execution Environment for Embedded TEE Systems. 2026. [91] Chuqi Zhang, Jun Zeng, Yiming Zhang, Adil Ahmad, Fengwei Zhang, Hai Jin, and Zhenkai Liang. The HitchHiker’s Guide to High-Assurance System Observability Protection with Efficient Permission Switches. In 

ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) ,2024. [92] Xiaoli Zhang, Fengting Li, Zeyu Zhang, Qi Li, Cong Wang, and Jianping Wu. Enabling Execution Assurance of Federated Learning at Untrusted Participants. In IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (IN-FOCOM) , 2020. [93] Yiming Zhang, Yuxin Hu, Zhenyu Ning, Fengwei Zhang, Xiapu Luo, Haoyang Huang, Shoumeng Yan, and Zhengyu He. SHELTER: Ex-tending Arm CCA with Isolation in User Space. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2023. [94] Shixuan Zhao, Mengyuan Li, Yinqian Zhang, and Zhiqiang Lin. vSGX: Virtualizing SGX Enclaves on AMD SEV. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) , 2022. [95] Wenjia Zhao, Kangjie Lu, Yong Qi, and Saiyu Qi. MPTEE: bringing flexible and efficient memory protection to intel SGX. In European Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys) , 2020. [96] Qihang Zhou, Wenzhuo Cao, Xiaoqi Jia, Peng Liu, Shengzhi Zhang, Jiayun Chen, Shaowen Xu, and Zhenyu Song. RContainer: A Secure Container Architecture through Extending ARM CCA Hardware Prim-itives. 2025. [97] Qihang Zhou, Wenzhuo Cao, Xiaoqi Jia, Shaowen Xu, Jiayun Chen, Nan Jiang, Zhicong Zhang, Zhenyu Song, Haichao Du, Yamin Xie, et al. FlexClave: An Extensible and Secure Trusted Execution Environment Framework. IEEE Transactions on Computers , 2026. 

16 APPENDIX 

In this appendix, we provide additional information about some of the contents of this paper. First, Table VII presents a detailed list of all the SGX microprograms available on modern Intel CPUs. Next, Table VIII shows more detailed numbers on the results of the microbenchmarks executed as part of the evaluation presented in Section VI. 

TABLE VII THE FOLLOWING TABLE PRESENTS AN OVERVIEW OF THE SGX ENCLU AND ENCLS MICROINSTRUCTIONS . T HE LEAF -NUMBER IN THE EAX REGISTER DECIDES THE MICROPROGRAMS TO BE RUN . A SHORT DESCRIPTION FOR EACH PROGRAM IS GIVEN IN THE LAST COLUMN .

Instruction EAX SGX Function Description ENCLS 0x0 ECREATE Create an SECS page in the EPC 0x1 EADD Add a Page to an Uninitialized Enclave 0x2 EINIT Initialize an Enclave for Execution 0x3 EREMOVE Remove a page from the EPC 0x4 EDGBRD Read From a Debug Enclave 0x5 EDBGWR Write to a Debug Enclave 0x6 EEXTEND Extend Uninitialized Enclave Measurement by 256 Bytes 0x7 ELDB Load an EPC page and Marked its State Blocked 0x8 ELDU Load an EPC page and Marked its State Unblocked 0x9 EBLOCK Mark a page in EPC as Blocked 0xA EPA Add Version Array 0xB EWB Invalidate an EPC Page and Write out to Main Memory 0xC ETRACK Activates EBLOCK Checks 0xD EAUG Add a Page to an Initialized Enclave 0xE EMODPR Restrict the Permissions of an EPC Page 0xF EMODT Change the Type of an EPC Page 

ENCLU 0x0 EREPORT Create a Cryptographic Report of the Enclave 0x1 EGETKEY Retrieves a Cryptographic Key 0x2 EENTER Enters an Enclave 0x3 ERESUME Re-Enters an Enclave 0x4 EEXTIT Exits an Enclave 0x5 EACCEPT Accept Changes to an EPC Page 0x6 EMODPE Extend an EPC Page Permissions 0x7 EACCEPTCOPY Initialize a Pending Page 0x9 EDECCSSA Decrements TCS.CSSA TABLE VIII RESULTS OF THE MICROBENCHMARKS FOR THE CCX MICROPROGRAMS WITH THE RESULTS IN NANOSECONDS .

Instruction Runtime Instruction Runtime ECREATE 15281521 EAUG 29040 

EADD 18840 EMODPR 6360 

EINIT 1898520 EMODT 3960 

EREMOVE 3000 EREPORT 114639 

EDGBRD 6000 EGETKEY 53440 

EDBGWR 5880 EENTER 15153 

EEXTEND 25440 ERESUME 13664 

EDLU/B 843360 EEXIT 2334 

EBLOCK 4320 EACCEPT 5773 

EPA 24840 EMODPE 5802 

EWB 910200 EACCEPTCOPY 32606 

ETRACK 1920 EDECCSSA 3750 

17