Title: Fine-Tuning Small Reasoning Models for Quantum Field Theory

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.18936v1

Published Time: Wed, 22 Apr 2026 00:33:07 GMT

Number of Pages: 63

Markdown Content:
# Fine-Tuning Small Reasoning Models for Quantum Field Theory 

# Nathaniel S. Woodward 1, Zhiqi Gao 2, Yurii Kvasiuk 1, Kendrick M. Smith 3, Frederic Sala 2,and Moritz M¨ unchmeyer 11Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison 

2Department of Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison 

3Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics April 22, 2026 

https://huggingface.co/datasets/nswoodward/VerifiableQFT 

https://github.com/nswood/VerifiableTPData 

Abstract 

Despite the growing application of Large Language Models (LLMs) to theoretical physics, there is little academic exploration into how domain-specific physics reasoning ability develops while training these models. To investigate this, we perform the first academic fine-tuning study of small (7B-parameter) reasoning models dedicated specifically to theoretical physics. Because open-source verifiable training data required to train such capabilities is scarce, we developed a robust data generation pipeline that can both create synthetic problems and make existing human-authored problems suitable for model training. Selecting Quantum Field Theory (QFT) as our primary domain, we generated over 2,500 synthetic problems alongside a curated collection of human-adapted problems sourced from arXiv and standard pedagogical resources. We conduct both Reinforcement Learning (RL) and Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) experiments, benchmarking performance gains as well as generalization to other physics domains. We perform an extensive analysis of model chains-of-though before and after fine-tuning, to understand how reasoning errors evolve during RL and SFT. Finally, we publicly release our data pipeline, verifiable QFT training data, and ∼200M tokens of QFT reasoning traces. 

Figure 1: Performance gains after fine-tuning DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B with RL on QFT Easy com-pared to SFT on Qwen3-30B-A3B correct reasoning traces on QFT Easy. Corresponding Author: Nathaniel S. Woodward ( nwoodward2@wisc.edu )1

> arXiv:2604.18936v1 [cs.LG] 21 Apr 2026

# Contents 

1 Introduction 32 Related Works 33 Dataset Curation and Methodology 5

3.1 Problem Structuring and Auto-Verification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63.2 Verifiable Tasks in Theoretical Physics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73.3 Problem Seeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83.4 Data Generation Pipeline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83.5 Curated Datasets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.6 Challenges in TP Data Curation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 

4 Short Review of Finetuning Methods 12 

4.1 Supervised Fine-Tuning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 4.2 Reinforcement Learning with GRPO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 4.3 Comments on Model Distillation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 

5 Experiment 1: DeepSeek-7B RL 15 

5.1 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 

6 Experiment 2: DeepSeek-7B SFT 17 

6.1 SFT Dataset Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 6.2 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 6.3 SFT vs RL Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 

7 Experiment 3: Narrow Domain RL - Fermions and Spinors 21 

7.1 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 

8 Analysis of Reasoning Errors Before and After Finetuning 22 

8.1 Failed CoT Analysis Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 8.2 Our Approach: Distill-then-Classify . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 8.3 Findings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 8.4 Impact of Domain and Operational Difficulty on Model Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 

9 Conclusion 30 10 Acknowledgments 32 A QFT Topic List 42 B Synthetic Problem Prompt 47 C Example Problems 54 D Baseline Physics Reasoning Ability 58 E RL training diagnostic plots 61 F SFT Dataset Information 62 G LLM-driven CoT Analysis Consistency Checks 63 

21 Introduction 

Large Language Models have recently become powerful at mathematical reasoning in theoretical physics [1–13]. It is interesting to study the training dynamics and internal reasoning processes that allow these capabilities. Unfortunately, while the general principles of model training, such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) are publicly known, their implementation requires industrial-scale compute to achieve state-of-the-art results. Currently most industry labs do not publish their training data, precise training setup, or intermediate results of their training processes (such as the rollouts of RL generations). Therefore to study learning and reasoning dynamics of LLMs in academia (at a lower level of model capability) it is important to be able to run smaller experiments within our target domain. To our knowledge, the present work is the first that explores fine-tuning LLM reasoning models specifically for theoretical physics (here quantum field theory) in academia. Quantum field theory (QFT) provides an ideal domain for this exploration due to three complementary features. First, as a foundation of modern theoretical physics, QFT has a wealth of online pedagogical resources, which mitigates data curation challenges. Second, pedagogical QFT calculations are notoriously tedious yet analytically tractable without computer algebra tools–an aspect not explored in this work. Third, QFT follows a well-defined pedagogical progression (from classical field theory and scalar fields, to fermions and non-abelian gauge theories), providing a clear gradient of topic complexity. 

Our Main Contributions: 

1. Developing a synthetic data generation pipeline for auto-verifiable QFT problems with vari-able operational and domain difficulty. 2. Releasing thousands of verifiable QFT problems at variable reasoning difficulty. 3. Comparison of RL & SFT on small reasoning models with our synthetic data set, demonstrat-ing strong gains in the target domain and out-of-distribution physics tasks. 4. Benchmarking narrow domain fine-tuning of small reasoning models on only fermion and spinor QFT problems. 5. We analyze the learning dynamics during the fine-tuning and characterize how fine-tuning reduces common errors in the model’s chain-of-thought. We begin in Section 3 by detailing our data pipeline for verifiable problems supporting both fully synthetic problems and adapting human-authored problems into our verifiable format. In section 4, we provide a brief summary of the learning mechanisms of supervised finetuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR). We perform RL and SFT trainings for DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B and compare their performance gains in Section 5 and Section 6. We explore the dynamics of RL finetuning on narrow domains Section 7. Finally, we perform a detailed chain of thought (CoT) analysis on the reasoning traces in Section 8, comparing base model to the RL and SFT models to identify the shifts in reasoning behavior. In summary, our work provides foundations in academia to study the learning process of LLMs in theoretical physics. 

# 2 Related Works 

LLMs in Mathematics and Science. The application of Large Language Models (LLMs) to scientific domains has progressed from generalist models to specialized architectures with deep technical knowledge and reasoning abilities. Minerva [1] demonstrated that training on scientific corpora containing L ATEX signif-icantly improves performance on STEM benchmarks. By fine-tuning PaLM on arXiv papers and web pages, Minerva achieved state-of-the-art results on the MATH dataset, employing majority voting to mitigate cal-culation errors. Similarly, Galactica [2] was trained on a massive corpus of scientific knowledge to act as an interface for science, using specialized tokens for citations and reasoning steps, though it faced challenges with hallucination. 3Beyond these general-purpose scientific models, dedicated mathematical LLMs such as Llemma [14] have shown that continued pretraining on mathematical corpora yields strong performance on formal and informal reasoning tasks. Industry-scale endeavors such as AlphaGeometry [15] and the subsequent Al-phaProof/AlphaGeometry2 systems [16] have found great success and reached silver-medal performance at the International Mathematical Olympiad. More recent model-agnostic verification-and-refinement pipelines have pushed frontier LLMs to gold-medal IMO 2025 performance [17]. Formal theorem proving has also been extended from pure mathematics toward physics: Ax-Prover [18] introduces a Lean-based agentic framework with a dedicated benchmark of quantum-physics theorems. While formalization through Lean is promising direction, it is still in active development and critical re-evaluations of standard Lean benchmarks [19] have highlighted persistent limitations in measuring genuine mathematical reasoning. Despite these advancements, a discrepancy remains between solving standardized benchmark problems and the open-ended reasoning required for scientific research. Benchmarks such as FrontierMath [3], TPBench [4], PHYSICS [5], CritPt[20], and PhysReason [6] highlight that models struggle with the long-horizon, multi-step derivations of graduate-level mathematics and theoretical physics problems. A growing wave of physics-specific benchmarks further sharpens this picture: ABench-Physics [21] probes robustness under dynamic problem variations, CMT-Benchmark [22] curates expert-written condensed matter theory problems on which even frontier models solve only a small fraction, and NewtonBench [23] targets the discovery of generalizable scientific laws by LLM agents. All point to a rapidly narrowing gap on standardized tasks but persistent weaknesses on open-ended derivations. In theoretical physics specifically, LLMs have been used for multi-step Hartree-Fock derivations [10] and symbolic Matsubara summations in QFT via reinforcement learning at criticality [11]. Most recently, [13] used a frontier LLM (GPT-5.2 Pro) to conjecture a closed-form expression for single-minus gluon tree am-plitudes that was subsequently formally proven, providing a concrete instance of an LLM contributing to a novel result in QFT and scattering amplitudes. This development is complemented by general-purpose autonomous research agents such as Aletheia [24], which couples Gemini Deep Think with a generator/ver-ifier/reviser loop which explore the automated generation of mathematics research papers, and The AI Scientist-v2 [25], which uses agentic tree search to attempt the end-to-end construction of workshop-level scientific papers. While fully independent research agents have not yet reached professional human level, together, these results suggest that the frontier is shifting from benchmark-style evaluation toward LLMs as active collaborators in mathematical and physical research. 

Synthetic Data Generation and Reasoning Distillation. In the modern era of machine learning, synthetic data has evolved from a mere augmentation tool to a fundamental necessity for various tasks, including reasoning, effectively manufacturing the “textbook-quality” step-by-step logical traces that are critically scarce in natural corpora but essential for teaching models to think rather than merely pattern-match [26–33]. The “Textbooks Are All You Need” hypothesis, proposed by the phi series [34, 35], posits that training on “textbook-quality” synthetic data allows significantly smaller models to rival larger counterparts. This data-centric approach focuses on generating clear, instructional examples that make the reasoning process explicit. This paradigm extends to reasoning distillation, where student models learn from the reasoning traces of stronger teacher models via supervised fine-tuning (SFT). The foundational idea of knowledge distillation [36] has been adapted to the LLM setting: Orca [37] showed that training a 13B model on explanation traces from GPT-4 enables it to surpass larger instruction-tuned baselines, and Distilling Step-by-Step [38] demonstrated that a 770M model trained on LLM-generated rationales can outperform the 540B PaLM teacher, while MiniLLM [39] introduced on-policy distillation to reduce the train-test distribution mismatch inherent in standard SFT. DeepSeek-R1 [40] demonstrated that by distilling long reasoning traces from its RL-trained model into smaller architectures via SFT, the distilled Qwen2.5-14B model outperformed QwQ-32B-Preview across reasoning benchmarks. Subsequent analyses have investigated the key factors governing successful CoT distillation, finding that weaker student models benefit from coarser-grained reasoning while stronger students can leverage finer-grained traces [41], and that careful selection of teacher data based on “local naturalness” to the student is critical [42]. From a mechanistic perspective, representational analyses reveal that distilled models develop unique reasoning feature directions whose structural richness correlates with distillation performance [43]. 4Reinforcement Learning for Mathematical Reasoning. A central design choice in RL for reasoning is the source of the reward signal. Outcome Reward Models (ORMs) supervise only the final answer, while Process Reward Models (PRMs) [44, 45] shift supervision to intermediate steps, mitigating the “false posi-tive” problem where correct answers are derived from incorrect logic. Reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) sidesteps learned reward models entirely by using deterministic verifiers, as demonstrated by approaches like SHARP [29] and SWiRL [26], which synthesize high-quality reasoning trajectories through verifiable rewards and step-wise optimization. Orthogonal to the reward source is the choice of RL training algorithm. DeepSeekMath [46] introduced Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), which eliminates the need for a critic model by leveraging group-based relative rewards, improving training stability and efficiency over standard PPO. Furthermore, rStar-Math [47] employs Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to generate verified reasoning paths, enabling small language models to achieve frontier-level performance through self-evolution. Recent analyses of RL training dynamics suggest that reasoning capabilities emerge hierarchically, shifting from low-level procedural execution to high-level strategic planning [48], and that RL fundamentally reshapes how models approach reasoning—cultivating internal strategies and knowledge integration rather than merely boosting accuracy [49]. 

Curriculum Learning in Language Models. Curriculum learning-training on data, organized from easy to hard, is essential for efficient convergence in reasoning tasks. Reasoning Steps as Curriculum [50] proposes using “Depth of Thought” (DoT), measured by the number of reasoning steps in a teacher’s trace, as a difficulty signal. This method aligns training curricula with cognitive load, training models on shallow reasoning before progressing to deep, multi-step deductions. Adaptive curricula that re-estimate difficulty during training have also been proposed to address the dynamic nature of model competence [51]. 

# 3 Dataset Curation and Methodology 

Theoretical physics (TP) entails a spectrum of reasoning tasks, ranging from rigorous derivations rooted in pure mathematics to phenomenological predictions designed to match experimental data. Many theoretical physics tasks rely extensively on proof-based and derivation-based tasks. Currently, there is a large effort among reasoning researchers to develop training methods for non-verifiable tasks (such as rewards models [52–55], weak verifiers [56, 57], among others). While this direction is exciting, most of the progress thus far in mathematical reasoning has been driven by training with outcome verification [46, 58–60]. Therefore, we design our dataset and experiments around verifiable tasks in QFTs. For our synthetic QFT problems, we distinguish between domain difficulty and the operational difficulty 

of a task. We define these as: 

• Domain Difficulty: the depth of background knowledge required to comprehend a given topic. Tasks with high domain difficulty often involve pedagogically advanced concepts, significant abstraction, and interdisciplinary methods. 

• Operational Difficulty: the purely mechanical and logical demands of solving a task, independent of the topic. Assuming perfect understanding of the domain, this isolates the difficulty of the actual execution, such as navigating constraints and performing multi-step reasoning. Tasks with high oper-ational difficulty typically demand non-trivial solution paths, complex mathematical operations, and long derivations. In the following sections, we describe the curation of three training datasets for QFT reasoning and two evaluation sets. All datasets rely on fully code-verifiable data (Section 3.1, Section 3.2) and adhere to a unified problem-solution schema (Section 3.1). The generation pipeline begins with problem seeds –classified as either synthetic or human-adapted (Section 3.3)–which undergo generation and strict quality filtration (Section 3.4) to produce the final datasets (Section 3.5). We construct the training datasets with varying operational difficulty denoted as: Easy, Medium, and Hard QFT. All three datasets are generated based on a fixed topic list with varying domain difficulty from advanced undergraduate to post-graduate topics. By this design, each synthetic dataset is intended to have 5Python Code Skeleton Medium QFT, Problem 1061                                                                

> def c a l c u l ate_ prop aga tor_ rat io ( d : int ) - > float :
> """ C a l c u l ate s the ratio R ( d ) of the self - cont rac ted photon p r o p a g a t o r s in Feynman gauge to Landau gauge in dspa cetime di men sion s . R ( d ) =( D_ {\ mu \ nu }^{( F ) }D ^ {\ mu \ nu , ( F ) })/( D_ {\ mu \ nu }^{( L ) }D ^ {\ mu \ nu , ( L ) })Args : d( int ) : The number of spacetime di mens ion s . Returns : float : The numerical value of the ratio R ( d ) . """
> raise NotImplementedError

Figure 2: A characteristic example of the Python code skeleton provided in a problem statement. The model converts its analytic solution into this function, enabling automated test case verification. a fixed operational difficulty with a varying domain difficulty. Easy and Medium QFT are self-contained problems with single tasks and guiding context, specifically designed for models with lower reasoning ability. Hard QFT contains multi step problems with minimal context, intended to test model reasoning ability as well as physics knowledge. For evaluation, we collect human-authored problems from QFT pedagogical resources (textbooks and lectures notes) and theoretical physics arXiv manuscript. Combined these test model ability on pedagogical tasks in QFT as well as broad physics knowledge through arXiv problems. 

# 3.1 Problem Structuring and Auto-Verification 

In TP calculations, derived expressions can be complex and there may be many possible correct derivations for a problem. To address this, we require the model to implement its final analytic solution within a specified Python function. Figure 2 illustrates an example Python skeleton for a Medium QFT problem (Problem 1061), which tasks the model with calculating the ratio of self-contracted photon propagators. To verify model solutions, we employ a suite of test cases that span the physically meaningful range of inputs. All test cases are selected by frontier LLMs, allowing for the complexity of these tests to adapt dynamically to the task structure. For example, a discrete classification task (e.g., identifying a symmetry group) may require only a single assertion, whereas a calculation (e.g., a scattering cross-section dependent on energy) necessitates a sweep of test points to rigorously verify the model’s symbolic derivation across the relevant phase space. This approach automates the construction of code-based verification used in TPBench [4]. We decompose a single problem into the following distinct components: 

• Problem Statement : The presentation of the setup and specific tasks. This section defines all conventions and assumptions to ensure the problem is unambiguous. 

• Answer Requirements : This provides a Python function skeleton (signature) that the model must implement. It specifies necessary library imports (e.g., numpy , scipy ), input parameters, and a strict docstring defining the return type (e.g., float , complex ). 

• Solution and Answer : The Solution , often referred to as the “golden solution”, details the conceptual reasoning as well as any necessary derivations or calculations. The Answer isolates the final result as a concise, explicit constant or evaluable expression. 

• Code : This contains a fully functional Python script-adhering to the signature in the Answer Requirements-that numerically evaluates the analytic result derived in the Solution. 6Figure 3: Task distributions across the three synthetic training datasets. We find hidden-coefficient calcula-tions are the primary task select by generating models. 

# 3.2 Verifiable Tasks in Theoretical Physics 

In our initial efforts to curate a verifiable training dataset, we focused exclusively on tasks yielding numerical predictions. While quantitative calculation is a fundamental component of theoretical physics, relying solely on such problems severely restricts the dataset and fails to support a broad spectrum of tasks. To address this limitation, we expanded our methodology to include five distinct categories of verifiable tasks: 1. Direct Calculation Tasks: These tasks require the computation of a quantity that can be directly expressed as a number or a specific numerical function of given parameters. 

Example: Evaluating a regulated integral to find a finite constant C1(d, n ). 2. Hidden-Coefficient Derivation: The problem statement hides known analytic results and prompts the model to extract specific constants, coefficients, or exponents that appear in the final expression. The model must perform the full derivation internally but reports only the defining numeric values. 

Example: Finding constants CR, C L in a Hamiltonian. 3. Ratio and Comparison Tasks: Tasks that require comparing two physically related quantities to output a normalization-independent numeric ratio or boolean comparison. 

Example: Determining the relative sign between two scattering amplitudes. 4. Categorical Classification: Tasks requiring the identification of the correct discrete label from a finite, pre-defined set of physical properties. 

Example: Classifying particles (e.g., “scalar”, “pseudoscalar”, “axial-vector”); distinguishing statistics (“bosonic” vs. “fermionic”). 5. Logical Consistency Checks: Tasks where the model must verify whether a derived quantity satisfies a specific physical condition, resulting in a binary output. 

Example: Verifying if a Hamiltonian is Hermitian. In our data generation pipeline (Section 3.4), we provide these tasks descriptions and instruct the model to select a suitable task type for the generated problem. The distribution tasks in our validation sets is shown in Figure 3, where the Easy, Medium, and Hard QFT datasets all consist of 80 problems, but we allow 2-5 tasks per problem (2.8 on average) in the Hard dataset. 73.3 Problem Seeds 

Our data generation and processing pipeline is structured around problem seeds , which serve as the inputs for creating problem-solution pairs. We categorize problem seeds into two distinct classes, corresponding to 

human-adapted and synthetic generation streams. 

Human-adapted Seeds The first class of seeds consists of unprocessed problem-solution pairs collected from available TP resources. These are genuine, human-created problems that we curate from two domains in this work: 

• QFT Pedagogy: We utilize a total of 565 seeds sourced from: 

– Textbooks: Zee (172 problem seeds) [61], Peskin & Schroeder (26 problem seeds) [62], Weinberg (14 problem seeds) [63]. 

– Exercise Books: Radovanovic (193 problem seeds) [64], Cheng & Li (127 problem seeds) [65]. 

– MIT OpenCourseWare: QFT I–III (33 problem seeds) [66–68]. 

• arXiv: To incorporate contemporary topics, we scrape problems and solutions from approximately 100 theoretical physics arXiv manuscripts [69–199], from which we collect 397 seeds for evaluation 1. Our data scraping is not exhaustive of arXiv, but sufficient for our intentions. Additionally, we specifically select for pedagogical problems on arXiv, not intending to collect research-level tasks. For QFT pedagogy, problem-solution pairs (seeds) were collected manually. We utilized unofficial online solution sets for textbook problems (e.g., Zhong-Zhi Xianyu’s solutions to Peskin and Schroeder [200]), alongside official solutions from exercise books and MIT OCW. We retained only the pairs that could be faithfully transformed into our defined verifiable tasks. Because manual collection from arXiv is inefficient for a constantly evolving database, we developed an agentic framework for seed collection using Gemini. This agent queries the arXiv API, selects relevant manuscripts based on their abstracts, and parses the LaTeX source code to extract problem and solution sections. We then match the extracted problems with their corresponding solutions, again filtering out any that cannot be converted into verifiable tasks. 

Synthetic Seeds Synthetic seeds consist of physics topic and a target operational difficulty. To ensure a comprehensive curriculum and a varied domain difficulty, we organize our topics into four distinct pedagogical categories: Advanced Undergraduate (AU), Graduate (GR), Advanced Graduate (AG), and Post Graduate (PG). Within each category, we structure topics into several subgroups, listed in Table 1. This hierarchical structure is crucial for two reasons: it ensures dataset breadth and minimizes data overlap by restricting generation to well-defined subgroups. Within each subgroup, we list several common problem types to further structure problem creation. The complete QFT topic list is provided in Section A. 

# 3.4 Data Generation Pipeline 

As illustrated in Figure 4, our generation pipeline accommodates both synthetic and human-adapted seeds. These tracks serve distinct objectives and entail different validation requirements. Since we cannot assume the validity of fully synthetic problems, this pipeline prioritizes verification of quality and solvability. In contrast, we treat human-authored solutions as inherently valid; consequently, the human-adapted pipeline focuses strictly on adapting these existing problems to our schema with minimal modification to the core physics tasks. In the following subsections, we detail the specific mechanisms of this workflow, beginning with our strategies for sampling and repetition avoidance.  

> 1We consider the following arXiv categories: hep-th, hep-ph, hep-lat, cond-mat, nucl-th, gr-qc, quant-ph, astro-ph, nlin, physics, and math-ph. If a manuscript is labeled as multipled domains, we classify it as the first domain label.

8Table 1: Subgroups within each fixed domain complexity level in the synethetic QFT datasets. The full set of topics is provided in Section A.                       

> ADVANCED UNDERGRADUATE GRADUATE
> •Foundations and Scalar Fields
> •Path Integrals and Quantization
> •Symmetries and Scattering
> •Fermions and Spinor Structure
> •Gauge Fields and Symmetry
> •Renormalization and Corrections
> •Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking
> •Applied Topics and Tools
> ADVANCED GRADUATE POST GRADUATE
> •Renormalization Group and Scaling
> •Non-Abelian Gauge Theories
> •Finite Temperature/Vacuum Effects
> •Anomalies and Supersymmetry
> •Applied and Conceptual Tools
> •Amplitude and On-Shell Methods
> •Loop and Regularization Techniques
> •Effective Field Theories
> •Nonperturbative/Topological Physics
> •Curved Spacetime and Semiclassical QFT
> •Thermal, Lattice, and Nonequilibrium
> •Conformal and Dual Structures

Figure 4: Schematic overview of the data curation pipeline. The workflow is divided into two tracks: a fully synthetic pipeline (blue arrows) utilized for generating the training dataset, and a human-adapted pipeline (orange arrows) derived from arXiv manuscripts and coursework for the testing dataset. Both streams utilize Gemini for generation but differ in their initialization and verification stages, with only the synthetic data undergoing Frontier Model Verification. 

Sampling & Repetition Avoidance 

To generate a dataset of synthetic problems, we sample problems uniformly over the four domain levels (AU , GR , AG , PG). For a selected domain level, we uniformly sample within problem types from that level. To ensure dataset quality, we must minimize repetition . While our hierarchical topic list prevents overlap across broad domains, we must also ensure diversity within individual topics. To achieve this, we maintain a registry of short, expert-level summaries for every generated problem. During the generation phase, the model is provided with the summaries of all previously generated tasks within the target topic. This context allows the model to identify existing coverage and steer generation toward novel problems. 9Task Structuring & Data Generation 

To initiate generation, we select either a problem-solution pair (human-adapted) or a topic and difficulty (synthetic). This seed is integrated into a system prompt (provided in Section B) that describes our task structuring schema, Python implementation standards, calculation conventions, and problem guidelines. Each fully constructed prompt is provided to a frontier model, which returns the complete problem-solution pair and the physically meaningful test cases. We generate QFT Easy and QFT Medium with Gemini-2.5-pro 2

and QFT Hard and all human-adapted datasets are generated with Gemini-3-pro . We show characteristic example problems in Appendix C. 

Quality Metrics 

We employ a five-point evaluation protocol to assess each generated problem-solution pair: 1. Output-Seed Correspondence (Human-Adapted Only): Measures the correspondence of the generated task to the original source manuscript. While structural modifications necessary for auto-verifiability (e.g., converting symbolic tasks to numeric functions) are permitted, the core physical concepts and problem task must remain consistent with the seed. 2. Problem Definition: Assesses whether the problem statement is rigorous, unambiguously defined, and theoretically solvable. The score reflects the clarity of the physical setup and the precision of the answer requirements. 3. Solution Completeness: Evaluates whether the solution addresses every sub-task and constraint posed in the problem statement. This metric is strictly functional; it measures the presence of answers for all requirements, independent of the depth of the explanation. 4. Explanatory Quality: Evaluates the pedagogical clarity and physical correctness of the solution text. High scores are reserved for coherent, step-by-step derivations that justify the result. 5. Test Case Quality: Evaluates if the test cases reasonably verify if the implementation is correct. All problem-solutions are scored individually by frontier models for each metrics as Very Poor, Poor, Fair, Good, or Excellent. For QFT Easy and QFT Medium , we use a single quality grading by Gemini-2.5-pro ,while for QFT Hard we use three total gradings, two from GPT-5 and one from Gemini-3-pro . We filter problem-solutions by utilizing only those satisfying the “excellence” threshold for all quality gradings for downstream tasks. We introduced test-case verification specifically to handle the increased complexity of the Hard and Human-Adapted sets, as it proved unnecessary for the simpler problems. 3

Frontier Model Verification 

While quality filters remove obvious errors, we ensure validity by requiring independent verification from a frontier model ( GPT-5 ). We retain only those problems solved by GPT-5 in one attempt (for Easy/Medium) or three attempts (for Hard ). We use model consensus as a proxy for ground truth, assuming coincident errors are rare. Furthermore, filtering is non-destructive to our goals: if a problem’s complexity exceeds the capabilities of a frontier verifier, it is safely assumed to be out of reach for the smaller reasoning models studied here. 

Generation Pipeline Bias 

Our data generation pipeline utilizes frontier models for both generation and filtering, a process that in-evitably introduces inductive biases. For instance, problems generated by Gemini-3-Pro or filtered by 

GPT-5 are likely to exhibit properties that favor their respective model families during evaluation. Although this affects benchmarking validity (something we don’t intend for any of these datasets), we hypothesize that the impact is negligible in a training context for models outside of these families.  

> 2These datasets were generated prior to the release Gemini-3-pro .
> 3If the only failing metric is Test Case Quality, we repair the test cases and pass the problem.

10 3.5 Curated Datasets 

We validate our dataset curation by benchmarking proprietary and open-weight models, the results of which are discussed in Section D. We find our synthetic data follows the intended operational difficulty gradient and human-adapted problems are effective challenges for both open-weight and proprietary models. In this work, we use employ 32768 tokens as our maximum response length. 

Fully Synthetic Dataset 

Using the QFT topic list detailed in section A, we curate three datasets, Easy, Medium, and Hard QFT by varying the intended operational difficulty described in the system prompt. Easy and Medium datasets each comprise ∼1,000 training problems, whereas Hard is limited to ∼550 training problems due to higher generation costs. All three datasets are paired with 80 validation problems. For the validation set, we sampled 20 problems from each domain level, ensuring an equal distribution across subtopics. The creation of these datasets required generating 4,602 total synthetic problems, which underwent the successive filtering stages shown in Table 2. Table 2: Data Curation Statistics. Number of problems retained at each stage of the pipeline.                       

> Fully Synthetic Pipeline Human-Adapted Pipeline Filtering Stage Easy Medium Hard Pedagogy arXiv
> Initial Count (Gen./Seeds) 1,452 1,650 1,500 564 397 Passed QC 1,350 1,441 908 480 333 Passed QC + GPT-5 1,106 1,092 631 NA NA

Human-Adapted Datasets 

Using our curated set of human-authored problem seeds, we generate the arXiv and QFT Pedagogy validation sets containing together over 800 quality checked problems. These datasets allow for insight into reasoning ability both within QFT and across theoretical physics domains. 

Data Generation Cost Data generation including quality metrics costs approximately $0 .25 per problem. In total we generate 1452 Easy, 1650 Medium, and 1500 Hard synthetic problems total approximately $1200. After filtering on quality metrics we retain 1350 Easy, 1441 Medium, and 908 Hard. Both Easy and Medium have approximately a 13% quality control fail rate, while Hard has a significantly higher rate of 40%. We verify these 3699 filtered problems with GPT-5 costing approximately $1000, resulting in 1106 easy (18% fail rate), 1092 medium (24% fail rate), and 631 Hard (58% fail rate). At the estimated rate of $0 .25 per problem, the human-adapted datasets costs $240 for generation and quality metrics. After quality filtering, we retain 480 QFT Pedagogy (15% fail rate) and 333 arXiv (17% fail rate). The cost of generation and verification for all datasets combined is approximately $2500. 

# 3.6 Challenges in TP Data Curation 

In developing our data generation pipeline, mitigating errors inherent to LLM-based generation and filtering proved to be the primary challenge. While our review pipeline (section 3.4) substantially reduces these inaccuracies, a residual error rate inevitably remains. The errors we find manually are nearly entirely in problems generated by Gemini-2.5-Pro . We notice a significant reduction in errors and an increase in problem quality following the release of Gemini-3-Pro , implying that the generation of high-quality synthetic data will only become easier as model capabilities continue to progress. Below, we detail the specific challenges encountered and our mitigation strategies. 11 Incorrect Frontier Model Solutions When first developing synthetic problems we found through LLM flagging and human review that a small fraction ( < 5%) of Gemini-2.5-Pro generated problems contained ambiguities in the problem statement or errors in the golden solution. To mitigate this, we implemented the review and cross-validation pipeline described in section 3.4. While this review pipeline eliminates egregious errors, we are unable to entirely eliminate the possibility of any errors. As such, we have performed manual corrections or deletion of the few erroneous problems we’ve discovered after generation. Despite these limitations, our training experiments (section 5, section 6, section 7) consistently demonstrate the ability to develop TP reasoning ability through training on our synthetic datasets. 

Calculation Conventions In theoretical physics, the choice of mathematical or physical convention is often arbitrary. For example, physicists use both the mostly minus (+ , −, −, −) and mostly plus ( −, +, +, +) metric signatures, which can flip the sign of a calculated quantity. Code-based verification requires fixing these conventions so that all valid solution attempts yield the exact same numerical outputs for test case comparisons. Furthermore, purely mathematical operations, such as the normalization of Fourier and Leg-endre transforms, also require explicit convention definitions. To address this, the problem generator defines a minimal, unambiguous set of conventions, which we append to the problem statement when necessary. While defining calculation conventions is necessary for our implementation of code-based evaluation, we find it introduces another avenue for errors. We’ve found in a small number of problems, calculation conven-tions as written by the generating model can trivialize the problem’s task by overly revealing the calculation approach. Notably, we became aware of these erroneous calculation conventions after our DeepSeek-7B RL finetuning in Section 5 and correct for these errors. We find validation performance drops from approximately 60 → 54, confirming that some tasks were indeed trivialized. For future synthetic data generation we would instead choose to define a global set of calculation con-ventions which can be provided to the generating model, eliminating the need for per-problem calculation conventions. Additionally, this global list would be provided to all models attempting to solve the synthetic tasks, eliminating the possibility of information leakage through calculation conventions. 

Test Case Generation During early development, we generated test cases by randomly sampling the input parameter space. However, this approach frequently produced parameters outside of physically possible inputs. Since we utilize Python code generation strictly as a mechanism to verify physics results, evaluating non-physical test cases acts more as an evaluation of a model’s edge-case programming robustness rather than its physical reasoning. Consequently, we instruct the generator model for synthetic and human-adapted problems to select five to ten test cases strictly confined within valid physical bounds. 

Code Implementation Errors During analysis, we identified an instance where the golden solution code was incomplete, returning valid solutions for only a subset of the generated test cases. While rare, this resulted in false negatives, where attempts by other frontier models failed our verification pipeline simply because their generated code was more robust than the golden solution. 

# 4 Short Review of Finetuning Methods 

We briefly review the training methods of supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning with group relative policy optimization (GRPO), as well as their relation. For simplicity we employ the typical RL conventions throughout the following section. We define the model (here the LLM) as the “policy” which we represent as πθ for learnable parameters θ.

# 4.1 Supervised Fine-Tuning 

Our training data set contains pairs of ( x, y ∗) of problem prompts x and expert solutions y∗. An expert solution is given by a sequence of tokens 

y∗ = ( y∗ 

> 1

, . . . , y ∗ 

> T

). (1) 12 For a LLM (or “policy”) πθ , the goal of SFT for reasoning is to increase the probability that for prompt x,

πθ will produce the expert solution y∗. The LLM generates the answer sequence auto-regressively (token-by-token) and therefore the probability that πθ generates the expert solution factorizes per token as 

πθ (y∗ | x) = 

> T

Y

> t=1

πθ (y∗ 

> t

| x, y ∗

> <t

), y∗ 

> <t

= ( y∗ 

> 1

, . . . , y ∗

> t−1

) (2) The SFT loss is the negative log-likelihood of the expert solution, 

LSFT = − log πθ (y∗ | x) = −

> T

X

> t=1

log πθ (y∗ 

> t

| x, y ∗

> <t

). (3) The training loss thus teaches the model to make the token-wise expert solution a likely completion (answer) to the prompt. 

# 4.2 Reinforcement Learning with GRPO 

The RL training does not make use of the expert trajectory y∗. Instead, we sample a large number of answers from the model and upweight those that earn a high reward (i.e. they give the correct answer). For a single prompt x and the reference policy πθold (representing the LLM weights prior to the current optimization step), sample K responses 

y1, . . . , y K ∼ πθold (·| x). (4) Each response receives a reward 

ri = r(x, y i) (5) as defined through the reward function r(·, ·). Reward functions are designed by researchers to optimize the desired task or encourage model behavior (backtracking, code formatting, conciseness, etc.). 

Calculating Advantages Next, we must transform the raw rewards into advantages . The advantage 

Ai for each response yi is the difference between the reward ri and the expected reward for the prompt x,allowing us to isolate responses that perform better or worse than the baseline. Proximal policy optimization (PPO), a standard technique for RL training LLMs, uses a critic model Vϕ(x) with parameters ϕ to estimate the expected reward and defines the advantage as: 

Ai = ri − Vϕ(x).

For binary rewards, Vϕ(x) estimates the probability of correctly answering the prompt. In PPO, as the actor is updated, the critic must also be continuously trained to accurately predict the expected reward for the new policy. Relying on this critic typically requires hosting and tuning a separate, fine-tuned LLM, which introduces additional computational overhead. 

Group-Relative Advantage. GRPO [46] improves upon PPO by approximating the expected reward as the mean reward, thereby eliminating the need for a critic model and reducing advantage variance through group sampling. Explicitly, GRPO calculates the advantage Ai for rewards ri through 

Ai = ri − ¯r, ¯r = 1

K

> K

X

> j=1

rj . (6) The term “group-relative” refers to the subtraction of ¯ r. In this way, each trajectory’s weight depends on the rewards of all other trajectories in the same group. 13 GRPO Loss with Binary Rewards. The GRPO loss is calculated through the advantages Ai and is given by 

LGRPO = − 1

K

> K

X

> i=1

min ( ρi(θ)Ai, clip( ρi(θ), 1 − ϵlow , 1 + ϵhigh )Ai) . (7) where ρ is the policy ratio 

ρi(θ) = πθ (yi|x)

πθold (yi|x) . (8) The policy ratio calculates the probability of generating response yi given prompt x under the active policy 

πθ , relative to the old policy πθold used for the initial response generation. Because GRPO can perform multiple gradient updates on the same batch of generated responses, the current parameters θ continuously update and drift away from θold within a single training step. The policy ratio acts as an importance sampling weight to correct for this policy drift , ensuring the updates to πθ remain valid for data originally sampled by 

πθold . The clipping term prevents large policy updates that could derail the training process. We included CLIP-higher and left out the KL term and format rewards (as in our main training). In most mathematical settings, including our own, rewards are binary: 

ri ∈ { 0, 1} (9) defined by correctness of the policy’s outcome compared to the expert trajectory y∗. Defining M = PKi=1 ri

as the number of correct completions the advantages become 

Ai =



w+ = 1 − MK , ri = 1 ,w− = − MK , ri = 0 .

(10) 

Relation to SFT. If we briefly disregard the clipping for clarity, the GRPO loss becomes 

LGRPO −noclip = − 1

K

> K

X

> i=1

ρi(θ)Ai (11) Using the first order approximation of the policy ratio in ∆ θ we get 

L ∝ − X

> i

Ai log πθ (yi|x). (12) which can be written at token level as 

LGRPO −token ∝ − 

"

w+

X

> i:ri=1
> Ti

X

> t=1

log πθ (yi,t |x, y i,<t ) (13) + w−

X 

> j:rj=0
> Tj

X

> t=1

log πθ (yj,t |x, y j,<t )

#

. (14) We thus see that the GRPO loss upweights correct trajectories and downweights incorrect ones. The first term is equivalent to the token-wise loss of SFT if the successful RL rollouts were an expert trajectory. 

# 4.3 Comments on Model Distillation 

In our work, synthetic training data is generated by sampling from a superior teacher model coupled with our verification pipeline. Ultimately, both our SFT and RL experiments execute model distillation. SFT explicitly enforces the teacher’s exact CoT, fundamentally altering the student’s reasoning patterns and knowledge base. Conversely, distillation through RL on synthetic problems occurs indirectly: by generating verifiable problems through the teacher (frontier model), we limit learning on the synthetic dataset to 14 the teacher model’s physics ability. Therefore RL distills the knowledge of the teacher without directly transferring the reasoning style to the student. While RL presents computation challenges, SFT has limitations as well. Firstly, many frontier models do not provide the full CoT, limiting the possibility of SFT. Secondly, even when teacher CoTs are available, the teacher model may not be perfectly suited for the knowledge base of the student model. Thus, by refining it’s own CoTs in RL, the student model may be able to improve further than SFT would allow. We explore both methods in Section 5 and Section 6, aiming to study training methods for theoretical physics rather than achieving the highest possible score given our training budget. While we’ve discussed RL and SFT as separate methods, most post-training pipelines use a combination of SFT and RL [59]. 

# 5 Experiment 1: DeepSeek-7B RL 

In the following sections, we fine-tune models on our synthetic data set using both reinforcement learning (RL) and supervised fine-tuning (SFT). Our goal is to explore how much gains we can make with our limited compute budget, how RL and SFT compare on IID and OOD data, and how errors evolve during fine-tuning. We select the reasoning model DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B [58], referred to as DeepSeek-7B for brevity, for our exploratory training runs primarily due to its suitable base capabilities and well-understood performance in reasoning. We start by performing RL full fine-tuning of DeepSeek-7B on the Easy QFT training dataset, using the Verl framework [201]. In addition to DeepSeek-7B , we attempted RL fine-tuning of Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 [59], but en-countered difficulty extending its capabilities beyond base performance. We hypothesize that this inability to improve was due to the model being both low capacity and extremely optimized, making it difficult to specialize without sacrificing its broad reasoning abilities. Exploring RL fine-tuning of larger models brought additional challenges given our compute budget. In principle, we can support larger models within our com-pute budget, but this incurs prohibitively long sequence generation times. As such, we found DeepSeek-7B 

to be a balanced choice between performance and generation speed. 

# 5.1 Results 

Training Parameters We perform a full fine tuning using GRPO with a accuracy-only reward function, where verified correct solutions (all test cases passing) receive a reward of 1 and incorrect results receive a reward of 0. If multiple python code blocks are output, we only consider the final non-empty output code block for verification. Our RL training parameters were guided by JustRL [202]. We generate 32 rollouts per prompt at a temperature of T = 1 .0. To stabilize policy updates, we implement the clip-higher mechanism from DAPO [203] using an asymmetric clipping range ( ϵ = 0 .2, ϵ high = 0 .28). We find that clip-higher alone suffices to maintain entropy stability for small reasoning models, removing the need for entropy regularization or KL penalties [202]. Training uses a constant learning rate of 1 × 10 −6, a global batch size of 4 (effective batch size of 128), and a maximum response length of 20,000 tokens. This training was conducted on a single node of 4xH200 gpus at the Perimeter Institute over 160 hours (640 GPU hours). 

Key Takeaways: DeepSeek-7B RL 

• Training on the Easy set (40.2% → 54.2%) rapidly improves physics performance and induces strong zero-shot transfer to Medium problems (26.2% → 44.0%). 

• The trained model is reaches low, but non-zero performance on Hard dataset (0% → 2.0%). 

• Consistent gains across human-adapted datasets as well as TPBench. The training improvement is summarized in Table 3, with step-wise performance trajectories shown in Figure 5. Note that the step-wise trajectories in Figure 5 report the mean accuracy over k = 32 rollouts (as recorded in training), whereas the summary statistics in Table 3 strictly adhere to the k = 5 standard used throughout this work. Peak accuracy shown in Figure 5 during training appears higher than values reported in Table 3 due to adjustments to calculations convention statements in the validation set which we 15 deem provided crucial information on the problem approach and trivialized the tasks. This is challenge was described in Section 3.6. 

Rapid Convergence and Transfer On the Easy dataset, the model demonstrates rapid capability ac-quisition, improving from a zero-shot baseline of 40.2% to 54.2% success. As shown in Figure 5, the pass rate climbs steeply in the first 1,000 steps, indicating that the 7B model can quickly internalize the requisite introductory physics priors. Crucially, this stage induces strong ability transfer: without any direct training on the Medium set, performance on that subset jumps from 26.2% to 44.0% solely due to training on Easy. 

Figure 5: Easy QFT validation performance throughout RL training. The model starts from its base zero-shot performance and rapidly converges to peak competency. 

Domain Level Performance Variation As shown in Figure 5, the four domain levels exhibit varying degrees of difficulty both before and after RL. Paradoxically, post-graduate topics emerge as the easiest for both the base and RL models. We hypothesize that this trend stems from biases introduced during data generation, specifically: (a) an ambiguous definition of what constitutes an “easy” post-graduate problem, and (b) a tendency for the generating models to overcompensate for the advanced subject matter by defaulting to low-complexity reasoning steps. We provide a characteristic example in Section C of an Easy QFT post-graduate problem with advanced topics, but simple reasoning required to solve the presented tasks. 

The Hard Reasoning Barrier Easy RL raises performance on the QFT Hard dataset from a complete inability (0.0%) to a non-zero capability ( ∼2.0%). For challenging reasoning tasks it is typical to measure performance by test-time scaling with a large number of parallel samples (best-of-256, best-of-1028, etc). Given our compute constraints, we avoid these techniques, though this may limit the gains we find on QFT Hard. 16 Table 3: DeepSeek-7B RL Training Performance Benchmarks                                                                                                            

> (a) Synthetic Dataset Performance Easy Medium Hard Stage Succ Bo5 Succ Bo5 Succ Bo5
> Base 40.2 67.5 26.2 50.0 0.0 0.0 1. + RL on E 54.2 71.2 44.0 62.5 2.0 5.0 ∆+13.7 +3.7 +17.8 +12.5 +2.0 +5.0 (b) ArXiv Performance. Stage hep-th hep-ph gr-qc math-ph quant-ph class-ph Other Overall
> Base 12.4 9.1 23.8 10.0 22.6 16.7 15.4 16.6 + RL on E 18.9 18.2 32.3 18.5 28.9 28.3 24.2 24.6 ∆+6.5 +9.1 +8.5 +8.5 +6.3 +11.6 +8.8 +8.0 (c) QFT Pedagogy Performance. Stage Textbooks Exercise Books MIT OCW Overall
> Base 7.4 8.1 6.4 7.8 + RL on E 10.4 16.8 9.3 14.2 ∆+3.0 +8.7 +2.9 +6.4 (d) TP-Bench Performance. Success Rate by Level Overall Stage L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 Succ Bo5
> Base 67.5 58.5 3.6 0.0 0.0 23.5 36.8 + RL on E 70.0 83.1 3.6 4.3 0.0 30.5 38.6 ∆+2.5 +24.6 0.0 +4.3 0.0 +7.0 +1.8

Benchmark Performance Gains Beyond the ability transfer observed within synthetic datasets, we see improvements on benchmarks. On the human-adapted datasets, mean performance on arXiv increases from 16.6% to 24.6%, while QFT pedagogy performance improves from 7.8% to 14.2%. Within the arXiv benchmark, we record consistent gains across all tested subdomains, indicating a broader enhancement of physics reasoning capabilities beyond QFT. For the QFT pedagogy set, the majority of improvements are concentrated within the exercise books (Voja [64], Cheng-Li [65]). On TPBench, while nearly all gains are isolated to level 2 problems, the RL model successfully solves a single level 4 problem. Notably, this level 4 problem explicitly evaluates QFT scattering amplitudes. 

# 6 Experiment 2: DeepSeek-7B SFT 

In conjugation with our RL experiment in Section 5, we perform an analogous fine tuning of DeepSeek-7B 

with SFT using Axolotl [204]. While in RL, we explore the models ability to learn physics tasks through refining its own successful attempts, in SFT, we compare if training on successful attempts of more powerful “teacher” models yields comparative improvement. The synthetic problems used for RL and SFT are the same, allowing for a direct comparison of the methods. 

# 6.1 SFT Dataset Generation 

To develop a robust SFT dataset for physics reasoning, we require high-quality reasoning traces from capable teacher models. Because the full reasoning traces of proprietary frontier models are currently inaccessible, 17 we rely on open-weights alternatives. Operating within our compute budget, we select three teacher models for this task: oss-120b (medium reasoning effort) [205], Qwen3-30B-A3B [59], and Qwen3.5-122B-A10B [206]. Using these models, we generate five solution attempts for every problem across the training and validation splits of our synthetic datasets. We apply rejection sampling [207] to filter all generated CoTs, retaining only the traces that yield the correct final result. We generate reasoning traces with default inference temperature specified by model providers and using a maximum response length of 32,768 tokens. For further information on our SFT dataset, please refer to Section F. This dataset was generated on a single node of 4xH200 GPUs at the Perimeter Institute over approximately 36 hours. 

# 6.2 Results 

Training Parameters We run SFT for a total of 5 epochs with a sequence length of 35,000 tokens, utilizing sample packing. We experiment with longer training for up to 10 epochs, but find equivalent performance and resort to 5 epochs as our baseline. Training was conducted on 4xH200 GPUs with a micro-batch size of 1 per GPU and 2 gradient accumulation steps, yielding an effective global batch size of 8. We use the fused AdamW optimzer with a peak learning rate of 2 × 10 −5, a cosine decay schedule following a 10% warmup period, and a weight decay of 0.01. We conduct several SFT experiments with training times ranging from 1 to 5 hours each. 

Key Takeaways: DeepSeek-7B SFT 

• Qwen3-30B CoT traces yield the highest performance gains for DeepSeek-7B SFT, surpassing both 

oss-120B and Qwen3.5-122B .

• Accuracy on validation sets continues to rise concurrently with SFT overtraining to the degree we explore. 

• SFT models outperform RL on in-distribution synthetic tasks, whereas RL generalizes better to human-adapted benchmarks and TPBench. To understand the dynamics of SFT on our synthetic QFT datasets, we perform two exploratory test to determine: (a) the relation between validation accuracy and the SFT loss and (b) the optimal teacher model for Deepseek-7B SFT. 

Validation Accuracy vs Cross Entropy As detailed in Section 4, training with SFT does not directly test the model’s ability to solve a task on it’s own, but rather the token-wise cross entropy evaluated on the reasoning traces in our dataset. To accurately asses the efficacy of SFT for reasoning in our datasets, we first need to understand this relation between cross-entropy loss trends during training and the corresponding accuracy on evaluation. To address this, we select the dataset of Qwen3-30B on QFT Easy and evaluate the model checkpoints at every epoch during an SFT training run. The training loss and evaluation accuracies are shown in Figure 6. During training, the model begins to exhibit signs of overtraining around step 100, however, evaluation accuracy continues to rise from approximately 45% → 60% through the remaining training steps. This suggests, at least with our SFT hyperparameters, that the degree of overtraining we observe is not detrimental to evaluation accuracy. As such, in the following experiments we use the final checkpoint during SFT for evaluation. 18 Figure 6: SFT on Qwen3-30B yields performance gains in validation accuracy. We find validation accuracy gains continue to grow even as the model begins to overtrain during SFT. 

Benchmarking Teacher Models for SFT Generating reasoning traces from multiple teacher models provides a diverse dataset for SFT. However, variance in reasoning styles may introduce challenges. First, a significant divergence from the base model’s ( DeepSeek-7B ) inherent style—such as differences in verbosity or self-reflection frequency—may diminish performance gains. Second, while aggregating outputs increases dataset scale, mixing reasoning styles could introduce noise that complicates a small model’s ability to converge on a consistent policy. To evaluate the impact of teacher model selection on SFT, we conduct experiments across four data configurations for Easy QFT: oss-120B , Qwen3-30B , Qwen3.5-122B , and a combined dataset of all three models. The resulting mean validation scores are shown in Table 4. We find that Qwen3-30B yields the most significant performance gains, despite being the least proficient model on the underlying training and validation tasks. We hypothesize several factors that could contribute to this: (a) Compared to Deepseek-7B ,

oss-120B had significnatly shorter CoT, while Qwen3.5-122B had longer CoT. (b) the concise oss-120B 

CoT lacked the frequent reflection and backtracking we observe in Deepseek-7B CoT. (c) the reasoning chains produced by 100B+ models may represent a complexity leap that a 7B model cannot consistently emulate, leading to a diminished gains. For these reasons, we hypothesize that the Qwen3-30B reasoning traces are similar to those of Deepseek-7B , which allowed it to enhance it’s current reasoning abilities rather than shifting them. 

SFT Teacher Model (CoT Source) Student Model Base OSS-120B Qwen3-30B Qwen3.5-122B Combined 

DeepSeek-7B 40.2 50.4 59.7 47.3 50.4 Table 4: Mean accuracy on the QFT-Easy validation set between the base model and SFT on the teacher datasets. 19 Figure 7: Performance of select open models on comparison on semi-synthetic (top) and synthetic (bottom) datasets. 

SFT Performance Gains We conduct four SFT trainings using Qwen3-30B datasets Easy, Medium, Hard, and a combined dataset (Easy + Medium + Hard). The performance of the resulting models, alongside the base model, is summarized in Figure 7. While temperature is not a factor during SFT, it remains a tunable hyperparameter during inference. We find that the model’s default temperature ( T = 0 .6) yields optimal post-SFT performance. Across the SFT models, we observe consistent performance gains on both synthetic and benchmark datasets, with the exception of the Hard synthetic tasks, which remain beyond the model’s capabilities. Notably, the Easy-SFT model demonstrates substantial improvements on the synthetic datasets: its suc-cess rate increases from 40 .2% → 59 .7% on the Easy validation set. Furthermore, on the Medium validation set, the Easy-SFT model improves performance from 26 .2% → 45 .2%, outperforming the model trained explicitly on the Medium dataset (which achieves 40.0%). Conversely, on the human-adapted benchmark datasets (QFT pedagogy, arXiv) and TPBench, the Medium-SFT and All-SFT models exhibit the largest overall performance gains. 

# 6.3 SFT vs RL Performance 

We summarize the performance gains through RL on Easy QFT and SFT on Easy QFT Qwen3-30B reasoning traces in Figure 8. On the synthetic in-distribution datasets, SFT generally achieves higher performance compared to RL with meaningful gains on Easy QFT (SFT: +5.5), slight improvements on Medium QFT (SFT: +1.2), and RL outperforming on Hard QFT (RL: +1.8). On our out-of-distribution benchmarks, we find RL generalizes with gains on the human-adapted benchmarks (QFT: +3.9 RL, arXiv: +5.8 RL) and slight improvements on TPBench (+1.0 RL). We further explore the differences between RL and SFT by analyzing CoT dynamics in Section 8. 20 Figure 8: Performance comparison of RL on Easy QFT and SFT on Easy QFT responses from Qwen3-30b .

# 7 Experiment 3: Narrow Domain RL - Fermions and Spinors 

Building on the broad fine-tuning studies in Section 5 and Section 6, we investigate the limits of specializing a model on a single topic under a constrained data budget. Narrow domain fine-tuning could in principle be interesting for researchers working on specific topics where the base model fails. As a concrete example, we focus on graduate-level fermions and spinors topic, where the base model exhibits comparatively weak performance. For training, we restrict to the QFT Medium split. Across the original training and validation sets, we identify 44 fermion/spinor problems and re-shuffle them into 35 training and 9 validation examples for this experiment. 

# 7.1 Results 

Training Parameters We find a full fine-tuning to be unstable with a training set this small and instead use LoRA [208] fine-tuning (all linear layers, r = 64, α = 128) to reduce the number of trainable parameters and mitigate overfitting. Even with fewer parameters, RL training on LoRA models has been shown to be capable of performance gains in reasoning tasks [209, 210]. Following standard practice for LoRA fine-tuning, we use a learning rate of 10 −5 (10 × the full fine-tuning setting). We keep the effective batch size at 128, implemented as a batch size of 8 with 16 rollouts. With this setup, one pass over the training set corresponds to roughly 5 RL steps. We evaluate every 5 RL steps and select the best-performing checkpoint for analysis. All other parameters remain consistent with our prior RL configuration. 

Key Takeaways: Targeted Specialization (Fermions & Spinors) 

• LoRA fine-tuning on a small Fermions & Spinors dataset (35 problems) yields targeted improve-ments within the same domain. 

• Mean performance on Easy problems increases from 14 .5 → 25 .5 and on Medium problems from 8.9 → 20 .0, though no gains are observed on Hard problems. 

• The model exhibits no significant performance change on out-of-distribution tasks. 21 Performance peaks at step 40 before signs of overfitting on the training set. On the small in-distribution (ID) Medium split (9 problems), Fermion/Spinor accuracy improves from 8.9% → 20.0%, with Pass@5 increasing from 22.2 → 55.6. For more statistically significant, results we evaluate on the combined set of training and validation fermion and spinor problems in both ID Easy and Hard— both of which are not directly trained on. On ID Easy (65) accuracy increases from 14.5% → 25.5% with no change in pass@5. On ID Hard (27 problems), we find no change in performance. On out-of-distribution (OOD) tasks, we find no systematic regression performance. In mean: accuracy changes only marginally on Easy (39.5% → 39.2%) and slightly decreases on Medium (27.6% → 26.1%). While OOD Pass@5 fluctuates (67.1 → 65.8 on Easy; 52.6 → 46.1 on Medium) which we interpret as statistical variation. In this experiment, we find no evidence of catastrophic forgetting of general physics reasoning. Initially, we anticipated that fine-tuning strictly on graduate-level fermions and spinors may degrade out-of-distribution performance or, conversely, induce positive transfer to related topics. However, our results indicate in this case that the model compartmentalizes this targeted learning. It successfully improves on in-distribution tasks without compromising its pre-existing knowledge base, but fails to generalize these gains to broader physics domains. Table 5: Synthetic Datasets Baseline. Deepseek-7b performance on Fermion/Spinor in-distribution (ID) vs. out-of-distribution (OOD) subsets across Easy/Medium/Hard tiers.                                                               

> (a) ID (Fermion/Spinor). Easy (65) Medium (9) Hard (27)
> Model Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5
> Deepseek-7b 14.5 54.5 8.9 22.2 0.0 0.0
> Deepseek-7b + Fermion Spinor (RL) 25.5 54.5 20.0 55.6 0.0 0.0 ∆+11.0 +0.0 +11.1 +33.4 +0.0 +0.0 (b) OOD (excluding Fermion/Spinor). Easy (76) Medium (75) Hard (76)
> Model Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5
> Deepseek-7b 39.5 67.1 27.6 52.6 0.0 0.0
> Deepseek-7b + Fermion Spinor (RL) 39.2 65.8 26.1 46.1 0.5 2.6 ∆-0.3 -1.3 -1.5 -6.5 +0.5 +2.6

# 8 Analysis of Reasoning Errors Before and After Finetuning 

To further understand the change in validation performance after fine-tuning we generated 100 attempts for each of the 80 problems in Easy QFT validation set for both base model and fine-tuned models. As shown in Figure 9 and Table 6, both finetuned models substantially outperform the base: the RL model raises mean accuracy from 38.9% to 53.2% and the SFT model to 57.6%, while the number of perfectly solved problems increases from 0 to 10 and 12 respectively 4.Next, to understand how finetuning improves model reasoning, we develop an automated error analysis pipeline that classifies the types of errors present in incorrect rollouts. Designing such a pipeline proved non-trivial; we describe the challenges that motivated our final approach in Section 8.1 before presenting our ultimate approach. 

> 4Solve rates differ from those presented in prior sections due to the change in the number of attempts from 5 per problem to 100 per problem.

22 Table 6: Summary statistics comparing the base model (DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B), the RL-finetuned model, and the SFT model across 80 QFT easy problems with 100 rollouts each. 

Metric Base RL-Finetuned SFT 

Mean Accuracy 38.9% 53.2% 57.6% Median Accuracy 33.0% 63.0% 68.0% Std Accuracy 34.1% 40.0% 39.2% Problems Solved ( >0%) 70/80 70/80 72/80 Perfect Score (100%) 0/80 10/80 12/80 Mean ∆ (vs. Base) — +14.3% +18.8% Improved / Tied / Degraded — 62 / 6 / 12 65 / 4 / 11  

> (a) Finetune Improvement Histogram (b) Accuracy Distribution

Figure 9: Comparison between base model and finetuned model 

# 8.1 Failed CoT Analysis Methods 

In our initial attempt to analyze reasoning chains, we fed the entire chain-of-thought (CoT) as well as the golden solution to a strong LLM and prompted it to identify errors. This approach failed for CoT traces exceeding ∼10k tokens—common in our dataset—because the analyzer model struggled to isolate the substantive reasoning steps from the noise of the full CoT. A key challenge was the prevalence of self-correction callbacks : reasoning models frequently backtrack, abandon approaches, and restart derivations (e.g., “Wait, that’s wrong, let me try again...”), which obscured the actual reasoning path that led to the final answer. The analyzer would often attribute errors to abandoned reasoning branches rather than the final derivation. Next, we attempted a line-by-line analysis, where each line of the CoT was individually evaluated against the golden solution. This suffered from the same context limitations—without the full derivation context, the analyzer could not determine whether a given line was correct—and additionally encountered a granularity mismatch: a single logical step (e.g., applying an integration identity) often spans multiple lines, while a single line sometimes contains multiple logical operations. These boundary issues made line-level analysis unreliable. Finally, we explored defining error categories per problem , allowing each problem to have its own taxonomy of common mistakes. While this captured problem-specific patterns, it made cross-problem aggregation and comparison intractable, as the resulting taxonomies could not be meaningfully unified. 23 Figure 10: The three-stage error analysis pipeline. Stage 1 decomposes the verified golden solution into a sequence of numbered logical steps. Stage 2 distills each incorrect model rollout—after optional deduplica-tion and cleaning to remove self-corrections and exploratory text—into an analogous step sequence. Stage 3 

feeds both step sequences to an LLM that identifies errors, assigns each a category (Factual / Mathematical / Logical / Executional) and severity (Critical / Major / Minor), designates a single primary error category, and normalizes labels via a deterministic map before producing a structured per-attempt classification re-port. 

# 8.2 Our Approach: Distill-then-Classify 

These failures motivated a three-stage pipeline that (1) decomposes golden solutions into reference steps, (2) compresses CoT traces into clean logical steps via distillation, and (3) classifies errors against a fixed global taxonomy. We describe each stage below and illustrate the pipeline in Figure 10. 

Stage 1: Golden solution decomposition. For each problem, we use a strong analyzer model to decompose the verified golden solution into a sequence of logical steps, where each step represents a self-contained mathematical operation (e.g., writing down a Lagrangian, applying an identity, performing an integral). The final code implementation is separated and preserved as a distinct artifact. The analyzer receives the golden solution with line numbers and returns step boundaries, producing a structured reference against which model attempts can be compared. By selecting step boundaries, we eliminate the possibility of distorting the original text. Using the verified, concise golden solution as the reference for error analysis is essential as it allows the analyzer to assess model reasoning without needing to independently solve each problem. 

Stage 2: CoT distillation. Raw CoT rollouts from reasoning models are verbose and contain substantial noise: repeated derivations, abandoned approaches, metacognitive filler (“Let me think. . . ”, “Hmm. . . ”), and self-corrections. To address this, we first apply a deduplication pass for rollouts exceeding a token thresh-old. The deduplication prompt instructs the analyzer to remove—without any rewriting or paraphrasing— repeated reasoning (keeping only the final version), abandoned approaches, metacognitive filler, self-doubt, and redundant restatements. Crucially, the output must be a strict subset of the original text, preserving verbatim content. The deduplicated trace is then distilled into logical steps analogous to Stage 1. The analyzer identifies step boundaries throughout the entire trace (not only the conclusion), extracting all mathematically substantive operations while ignoring exploratory text and self-corrections. As in Stage 1, any code implementation 24 is separated from the mathematical reasoning. This two-phase process—deduplication followed by step distillation—reliably reduces 10k+ token CoT traces to a concise sequence of 5–15 logical steps, resolving both the context-length limitation and the callback-noise problem that plagued our earlier approaches. 

Stage 3: Error classification with code comparison. For incorrect attempts, the analyzer model receives the distilled response and the entire decomposed golden solution, and is tasked with classifying any errors present. We do not require the model to follow the same order or identical set of steps as the golden solution; the analyzer matches conceptually equivalent operations across both sequences. This ensures that valid alternative derivation paths are not penalized, though it may occasionally fail to flag errors in highly non-standard solutions that reach the correct answer through unrecognized routes. In addition, the analyzer receives an explicit code comparison section that places the golden code implementation side-by-side with the model’s code, with specific instructions to check for hardcoded values, missing parameters, and incorrect variable mappings. This dedicated comparison is essential: without it, code-level bugs are frequently overlooked because they are buried within lengthy step sequences. 

Error Labels We define a fixed global set of four error labels: 

• Factual : Recalling incorrect physics facts, misreading the problem statement, or contradicting earlier derivation results. 

• Mathematical : Incorrect mathematical operations—algebraic errors, sign mistakes, wrong simplifi-cations, missing factors, integration/differentiation errors. 

• Logical : Invalid deductions, non sequiturs, circular reasoning, or unjustified assumptions. 

• Executional : Errors in code translation—incorrect symbolic-to-code mapping, hardcoded values in-stead of function parameters, or implementation bugs not present in the analytical reasoning. (see Figure 11). Throughout development, we experimented extensively with the size of the error label set. While larger sets provide more granular insights into learned dynamics, they come at the direct cost of reproducibility. With large error sets, models frequently interchanged labels during independent testing. However, expert human review corroborated that these alternative labels were often equally valid, prompting us to define a minimal set of error labels to mitigate this inherent labeling uncertainty. The analyzer identifies all errors in each incorrect rollout, classifies each into exactly one of the four categories, and assigns a severity level: major (significantly affected reasoning or the final answer) or minor 

(present but did not materially change the result). Each rollout also receives a primary error category —the single category most directly responsible for the wrong final answer. A deterministic post-processing step normalizes any fine-grained labels returned by the analyzer (e.g., “sign error” → mathematical , “code bug” 

→ executional ) to ensure consistent aggregation. 

Analyzer model and scale. We use OpenAI’s open-weight gpt-oss-120b model as the analyzer across all stages. We selected this model after validating on a small subset of problems with Gemini 3.0 Pro, which produced comparable classification quality (we further comment on a consistency check done with Claude-CLI in App. G); gpt-oss-120b offers substantially lower inference cost due to its mixture-of-experts architecture (117B total parameters, 5.1B active), making it practical to analyze hundreds of rollouts per problem. The pipeline processes all incorrect rollouts for the 20 problems with the largest accuracy improvement under each training method: for RL, 1,378 base-model and 480 RL-finetuned incorrect rollouts; for SFT, 1,499 base-model and 493 SFT incorrect rollouts. The two top-20 sets share 10 overlapping problems, enabling direct three-way comparison on a common problem subset. 

# 8.3 Findings 

RL Error Statistics. Figure 12 shows the frequency of major errors—measured as the average number of major errors per incorrect rollout—across the 20 most improved problems for both the base DeepSeek-7B 

25 q Factual Error Problem 899, CoT Step 5 

Model claim: “( γ5)2 = −I”

Correct fact: γ5 squares to the identity, ( γ5)2 = I.

> Misrecalled property of the chirality matrix propagates through the subsequent projection operator algebra.

y Mathematical Error Problem 993, CoT Step 4 

Model writes: (2 x − 1) 2 = x2 − 2x + 1 

Correct expansion: (2 x − 1) 2 = 4 x2 − 4x + 1. 

> The factor of 4 is dropped from the leading coefficient, producing incorrect polynomial coefficients for the Feynman parameter integral.

. Logical Error Problem 49, CoT Step 4 

Model derives: Amplitude scales as A(z) ∼ z2 at large z.

Model concludes: “. . . therefore the amplitude scales as z−2.” 

> The derivation is correct, but the conclusion contradicts it—inverting the sign of the exponent and reversing the large-z
> behavior.

Ð Executional Error Problem 1199, CoT Step 8 

Derivation: Correctly obtains the BPS energy coefficient C = 14 .

Code: C = 1/3 ← bug 

> The analytical reasoning is correct, but the implementation assigns a different numerical value, a transcription error visible only in the code.

Figure 11: Representative examples of the four error categories identified by our pipeline. Each box shows an actual error from an incorrect rollout, illustrating how the category definitions map to concrete failure modes. 

Figure 12: Major error count and frequency (average number of major errors per incorrect rollout) across the top-20 most RL-improved problems, broken down by error category. 26 Figure 13: Major error count and frequency (average number of major errors per incorrect rollout) across the top-20 most SFT-improved problems, broken down by error category. 

Figure 14: Three-way major error comparison on the 10 problems appearing in both the RL and SFT top-20 most improved sets. All error categories decrease in absolute count. Per incorrect rollout, both finetuned models dramatically reduce factual error frequency (0.55 → 0.28 for RL, 0.32 for SFT), while mathematical errors constitute a larger share of the remaining incorrect attempts (0.50 → 0.64 for RL, 0.60 for SFT). Frequency is defined as the average number of major errors per incorrect rollout. model and its RL-finetuned variant. We find RL reduced total incorrect rollouts by 65%, from 1,378 → 480, explaining the decrease in absolute counts of all error types after finetuning. The biggest change is in factual errors , which drop from 0.59 to 0.37 per incorrect rollout, a 37% reduc-tion in frequency. This is a notable finding: conventional wisdom holds that SFT is effective at teaching domain knowledge while RL primarily improves reasoning and problem-solving strategy [209, 211, 212]. In 27 Figure 15: Per-problem accuracy change (percentage points) for RL-finetuned vs. SFT, relative to the base model. Each point is one of 80 problems; color encodes base model accuracy. Edge highlights mark top-20 most improved problems for each method. The moderate correlation (Pearson r = 0 .43) indicates partially overlapping but distinct improvement profiles, with 10 of 20 top-improved problems shared between RL and SFT. our experiments, we found that RL training primarily grounded the model in correct domain knowledge, reducing misrecalled physics facts, problem misreadings, and internal contradictions, while mathematical errors , executional errors , and logical errors remain at similar frequencies per incorrect rollout. 

SFT Error Statistics. Figure 13 presents the analogous analysis for SFT. The SFT model reduces total incorrect rollouts from 1,499 to 493 across its top-20 most improved problems—a 67% reduction, compared to 65% for RL (1,378 → 480). As with RL, the large reduction in incorrect rollouts means that all four error categories decrease substantially in absolute count. The error frequency profile per incorrect rollout is qualitatively similar to RL: factual errors show the largest frequency drop per incorrect rollout (0.51 → 0.44), while mathematical (0.37 → 0.48), executional (0.19 → 0.29), and logical (0.28 → 0.30) errors constitute a larger share of the remaining incorrect attempts. This pattern—factual errors being eliminated preferentially among incorrect rollouts—appears to be a general feature of finetuning on domain-specific data rather than an artifact of the RL reward signal, reinforcing the finding that domain-specific finetuning primarily improves factual grounding over mathematical or logical reasoning. 

Direct RL vs. SFT Comparison on Overlapping Problems. The 10 problems appearing in both top-20 sets (Figure 14) allow a controlled three-way comparison. On these problems the base model produces 721 incorrect rollouts; RL reduces this to 240 (67% reduction) and SFT to 214 (70% reduction). All four error categories decrease in absolute count under both methods. Both methods achieve comparable reductions in factual error frequency per incorrect rollout (base 0.55 → RL 0.28, SFT 0.32), again confirming that improved factual grounding is the primary mechanism. The residual errors in both finetuned models are dominated by mathematical mistakes (RL 0.64, SFT 0.60 per incorrect rollout), suggesting that algebraic manipulation re-mains the principal bottleneck for the remaining incorrect attempts. This compositional shift—where factual errors are preferentially resolved, leaving the remaining incorrect rollouts concentrated on harder problems dominated by mathematical and implementation errors—is consistent across both training methods. 28 The moderate correlation between per-problem improvements (Pearson r = 0 .43; Figure 15) indicates that RL and SFT partially target the same failure modes but also address distinct weaknesses. The 50% overlap in top-20 sets—compared to ∼6% expected by chance for 80 problems—confirms that both methods preferentially improve similar problems, while the remaining divergence suggests that RL’s reward-driven optimization and SFT’s imitation learning provide complementary inductive biases. 

Backtracking and Trace Length Analysis. To quantify how finetuning affects the model’s reasoning behavior, we analyze two properties of each chain-of-thought (CoT) trace: trace length , measured in number of tokens, and backtracking frequency , defined as the number of explicit self-correction events per trace. We identify backtracking through 13 regex patterns that capture strictly corrective language (e.g., “Wait, no”, “Let me recalculate”, “I made a mistake”), excluding generic discourse markers such as “Hmm” or “Actually” that do not signal reversal of prior reasoning. These patterns were validated through manual inspection of over 400 traces across both models. We evaluate 8,000 traces per model (80 problems × 100 attempts), with correctness determined by an automated numerical verifier that checks the final answer against the reference solution. 

Figure 16: Trace length and backtracking frequency for the base and RL-finetuned models (80 problems, 100 attempts each). Note that SFT traces are notably longer on average, likely because the model learns to mimic the verbosity of the fine-tuning demonstrations rather than reflecting a genuine increase in reasoning depth. While the base and finetuned models exhibit nearly identical aggregate trace lengths (7,148 vs. 7,136 BPE tokens) and backtracking frequencies (24.2 vs. 23.9 per trace), conditioning on correctness reveals a redistribution effect (Figure 16). The finetuned model generates substantially longer traces on correct 29 attempts (5,399 vs. 3,594 tokens) and backtracks more frequently when it ultimately succeeds (20.6 vs. 12.9), suggesting that RL training encourages the model to invest additional computation—including productive self-correction—on problems it can solve. Conversely, on incorrect attempts the finetuned model backtracks less (27.7 vs. 31.4), indicating a reduction in futile self-correction loops. RL thus does not increase or decrease backtracking overall, but reallocates it toward reasoning steps on solvable problems. 

# 8.4 Impact of Domain and Operational Difficulty on Model Performance 

Expanding our analysis to Easy, Medium, and Hard QFT validation sets we use 100 rollouts per problem and examine the relation between LLM solve rate and domain and operational difficulty. As shown in Figure 17, there is no consistent correlation between accuracy and domain difficulty. In Easy QFT, both models solve post-graduate problems more reliably (49% base, 62% RL, 65% SFT) than advanced undergraduate ones (33% base, 51% RL, 48% SFT). Similarly, in Medium QFT, advanced graduate problems are the easiest across all three models (40% base, 60% RL, 65% SFT). However, their weakest areas diverge: the base and SFT models struggle the most with graduate problems (17% and 35%, respectively), while the RL model struggles most with post-graduate problems (30%). Performance on Hard QFT remains too low to draw concrete conclusion on any trends. These trends suggest that LLM solve rates in our dataset are governed by operational complexity rather than domain difficulty. The primary bottleneck is not the depth of physics knowledge, but the length of the reasoning chain–specifically the number of derivation steps, intermediate manipulations, and implicit constraints that must be identified. A problem requiring advanced knowledge but admitting a direct deriva-tion is often easier than a conceptually simpler problem demanding sustained multi-step reasoning. This phenomena is exactly the case for some of the post-graduate problems in the Easy QFT dataset (discussed in Section 5 and demonstrated in Section C). 

Figure 17: Mean accuracy by domain level (defined by pedagogical level) for Easy, Medium, and Hard QFT. We abbreviate advanced undergraduate (UG), graduate (G), advanced graduate (AG), and post-graduate (PG). Accuracy is non-monotonic in domain difficulty, indicating that knowledge level alone is a poor predictor of LLM performance. Operational difficulty is the primary driver of LLM solve rate with higher operational difficulty consistently yielding lower mean accuracy in both the base and RL models. 

# 9 Conclusion 

In this work, we explored the fine-tuning of LLMs for reasoning tasks in theoretical physics. Due to its high computational cost, there are relatively few works on fine-tuning models for advanced reasoning topics in academia (most works are focused on elementary mathematics), and none in theoretical physics that we are aware of. Although it is not possible to set competitive results with respect to industry models, given academic computing constraints, it is nonetheless interesting to study the training behavior of smaller reasoning models. 30 Results In our exploratory training runs we demonstrated consistent gains in DeepSeek-7B ’s theoretical physics reasoning. On the synthetic QFT datasets, mean accuracy on Easy QFT improved from 40.2% to 54.2% through RL, and to 59.7% through SFT on Qwen3-30B-A3B rejection-sampled data. This training transferred strongly to Medium QFT, where accuracy increased from a 26.2% baseline to 44.0% (RL) and 45.2% (SFT), though the Hard QFT dataset remains largely unsolved across base and fine-tuned models. Crucially, while SFT peaked on synthetic tasks, RL generalized better to human-adapted, out-of-distribution domains. For instance, on QFT Pedagogy, the RL model improved accuracy from 7.8% to 14.1% (outper-forming the SFT model’s 10.2%), and similarly boosted arXiv performance from 16.6% to 24.6% (compared to 18.8% for SFT). This pattern held on the TPBench benchmark, where RL achieved a 30.5% success rate over the 23.5% baseline, narrowly beating the SFT model’s 29.5%. Additionally, we briefly explore narrow domain fine tuning on only fermion and spinor problems, finding gains in-distribution and no evidence of catastrophic forgetting on other tasks. To understand how these models’ reasoning behaviors evolved after fine-tuning, we performed a robust CoT analysis using our Distill-then-Classify pipeline. Evaluating incorrect attempts on the 20 most-improved problems, we found that RL and SFT reduced total errors by 65% and 67%, respectively. For both methods, factual errors saw the greatest reduction, while mathematical errors remained the most prevalent post-fine-tuning, highlighting the probable benefits of tool use integration. Expanding our analysis to token response length and backtracking frequency revealed differences between RL and SFT. Although both methods increased the length of correct responses, only SFT inflated incor-rect trace lengths, which we attribute to teacher verbosity. Furthermore, while SFT universally suppressed backtracking, RL actively enhanced it during successful problem-solving with a slight reduction in the in-correct attempts. This suggests that SFT disrupts and overrides the base model’s inherent reasoning and self-correction patterns to a greater extent than RL. Comparing performance trends across the three synthetic datasets, we found that for both the base and fine-tuned models, the solve rate is primarily driven by the operational complexity of the tasks. Domain complexity–the depth of specialized physics knowledge required–exhibits little correlation with performance in our datasets, perhaps because the large knowledge base of models covers all levels of difficulty relatively evenly. 

Fine-tuning in Academia Despite yielding comparable performance, RL is significantly more compute-intensive than SFT. Specifically, the RL pipeline for Easy QFT required 160 hours on 4xH200s GPUs. In contrast, the entire SFT dataset generation required 36 hours, and SFT training on Qwen3-30B Easy QFT took only 75 minutes. In total, the development of this work, including all exploratory runs, failed attempts, and final training runs, consumed approximately 240 GPU-days. RL and SFT have different advantages and disadvantages for TP reasoning explorations in academic settings. We view SFT as an efficient method for developing reasoning on tasks within frontier model capabilities. However, because SFT relies on distillation from a teacher to a student, it may be unappealing for researchers aiming to study reasoning progression purely through the optimization of problem-solving tasks. Furthermore, for topics near the limits of model ability, there may not even be a suitable teacher model available to generate SFT data—a challenge currently exacerbated by the lack of full CoT traces from proprietary frontier models. For academic fine-tuning, RL can necessitate prohibitive computational costs. Currently, standard aca-demic compute budgets cannot support large-scale experiments, largely eliminating the feasibility of extend-ing model capabilities solely through prolonged, outcome-based RL. Despite this constraint, RL remains appealing because it offers researchers greater control to directly guide a model’s underlying reasoning be-havior. Academic studies of reasoning in TP can aim to move beyond simple RLVR, through focusing on the development of reward functions, integration with symbolic computation tools, and structured, multi-step reasoning loops tailored for research-level tasks. 

Outlook With this work we are setting baseline results for model fine-tuning in TP. To aid in further work, we provide our verifiable QFT training data, data pipeline for synthetic and human-adapted problems, and release all SFT rejection sampled datasets. Future work may focus on improving the training or reliability, for example using multi-step RL [26, 47], integrating computational tools [26, 213–215], or RL with symbolic 31 verification [216]. Further, with new investments in academic compute (such as Argonne’s Solstice system with 100,000 NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs), larger academic experiments are becoming possible in principle. 

# 10 Acknowledgments 

We are grateful for API credits from the Google Cloud research credits program and Anthropic, allowing for the generation and evaluation of the synthetic and human-adapted datasets. All local trainings and evaluations were only made possible through the generous access to the Symmetry H200 cluster at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. We thank Garrett Merz, Maja Waldron, and Jianhao Wu for useful discussion in the development of this work. M.M. acknowledges the support by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of High Energy Physics under Award Number DE-SC0017647, the support by the National Science Foundation (NSF) under Grant Number 2307109 and 2509873 and the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF). KMS was supported by an NSERC Discovery Grant, by the Daniel Family Foundation, and by the Centre for the Universe at Perimeter Institute. Research at Perimeter Institute is supported by the Government of Canada through Industry Canada and by the Province of Ontario through the Ministry of Research & Innovation. FS is grateful for the support of the NSF under CCF2106707 and the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF). 

# References 

[1] Aitor Lewkowycz et al. Solving Quantitative Reasoning Problems with Language Models . 2022. arXiv: 

2206.14858 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.14858 .[2] Ross Taylor et al. Galactica: A Large Language Model for Science . 2022. arXiv: 2211.09085 [cs.CL] .

url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09085 .[3] Elliot Glazer et al. FrontierMath: A Benchmark for Evaluating Advanced Mathematical Reasoning in AI . 2024. arXiv: 2411.04872 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04872 .[4] Daniel J. H. Chung et al. Theoretical Physics Benchmark (TPBench) – a Dataset and Study of AI Reasoning Capabilities in Theoretical Physics . 2025. arXiv: 2502.15815 [cs.LG] . url : https: //arxiv.org/abs/2502.15815 .[5] Kaiyue Feng et al. PHYSICS: Benchmarking Foundation Models on University-Level Physics Problem Solving . 2025. arXiv: 2503.21821 [physics.ed-ph] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.21821 .[6] Xinyu Zhang et al. PhysReason: A Comprehensive Benchmark towards Physics-Based Reasoning .2025. arXiv: 2502.12054 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12054 .[7] Xinyu Pang et al. Physics Reasoner: Knowledge-Augmented Reasoning for Solving Physics Problems with Large Language Models . 2024. arXiv: 2412.13791 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2412.13791 .[8] Xin Xu et al. UGPhysics: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Undergraduate Physics Reasoning with Large Language Models . 2025. arXiv: 2502.00334 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2502. 00334 .[9] Paul Tschisgale et al. “Evaluating GPT- and reasoning-based large language models on Physics Olympiad problems: Surpassing human performance and implications for educational assessment”. In: 

Physical Review Physics Education Research 21.2 (Aug. 2025). issn : 2469-9896. doi : 10.1103/6fmx-bsnl . url : http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/6fmx-bsnl .[10] Haining Pan et al. “Quantum many-body physics calculations with large language models”. In: Com-munications Physics 8.1 (Jan. 2025). issn : 2399-3650. doi : 10.1038/s42005- 025- 01956- y . url :

http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s42005-025-01956-y .[11] Xiansheng Cai et al. “Learning-at-Criticality in Large Language Models for Quantum Field Theory and Beyond”. In: Chinese Physics Letters 42.12 (Nov. 2025), p. 120002. issn : 1741-3540. doi : 10. 1088/0256-307x/42/12/120002 . url : http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0256-307X/42/12/120002 .32 [12] Kristian G. Barman et al. “Large physics models: towards a collaborative approach with large language models and foundation models”. In: The European Physical Journal C 85.9 (Sept. 2025). issn : 1434-6052. doi : 10.1140/epjc/s10052-025-14707-8 . url : http://dx.doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-025-14707-8 .[13] Alfredo Guevara et al. Single-minus gluon tree amplitudes are nonzero . 2026. arXiv: 2602 . 12176 [hep-th] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.12176 .[14] Zhangir Azerbayev et al. Llemma: An Open Language Model For Mathematics . 2024. arXiv: 2310. 10631 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10631 .[15] T. H. Trinh, Y. Wu, Q. V. Le, et al. “Solving olympiad geometry without human demonstrations”. In: 

Nature 625 (2024), pp. 476–482. url : https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-023-06747-5 .[16] AlphaProof and AlphaGeometry TEams. Ai achieves silver-medal standard solving International Mathematical Olympiad Problems . 2024. url : https : / / deepmind . google / discover / blog / ai -solves-imo-problems-at-silver-medal-level/ .[17] Yichen Huang and Lin F. Yang. Winning Gold at IMO 2025 with a Model-Agnostic Verification-and-Refinement Pipeline . 2025. arXiv: 2507.15855 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.15855 .[18] Benjamin Breen et al. Ax-Prover: A Deep Reasoning Agentic Framework for Theorem Proving in Mathematics and Quantum Physics . 2025. arXiv: 2510.12787 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/ abs/2510.12787 .[19] Azim Ospanov, Farzan Farnia, and Roozbeh Yousefzadeh. miniF2F-Lean Revisited: Reviewing Limi-tations and Charting a Path Forward . 2025. arXiv: 2511.03108 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/ abs/2511.03108 .[20] Minhui Zhu et al. Probing the Critical Point (CritPt) of AI Reasoning: a Frontier Physics Research Benchmark . 2025. arXiv: 2509.26574 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.26574 .[21] Yiming Zhang et al. ABench-Physics: Benchmarking Physical Reasoning in LLMs via High-Difficulty and Dynamic Physics Problems . 2025. arXiv: 2507.04766 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2507.04766 .[22] Haining Pan et al. CMT-Benchmark: A Benchmark for Condensed Matter Theory Built by Expert Researchers . 2026. arXiv: 2510.05228 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.05228 .[23] Tianshi Zheng et al. NewtonBench: Benchmarking Generalizable Scientific Law Discovery in LLM Agents . 2026. arXiv: 2510.07172 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.07172 .[24] Tony Feng et al. Towards Autonomous Mathematics Research . 2026. arXiv: 2602.10177 [cs.LG] .

url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.10177 .[25] Yutaro Yamada et al. The AI Scientist-v2: Workshop-Level Automated Scientific Discovery via Agen-tic Tree Search . 2025. arXiv: 2504.08066 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08066 .[26] Anna Goldie et al. Synthetic Data Generation & Multi-Step RL for Reasoning & Tool Use . 2025. arXiv: 2504.04736 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04736 .[27] Xianyang Liu et al. AgenticMath: Enhancing LLM Reasoning via Agentic-based Math Data Genera-tion . 2025. arXiv: 2510.19361 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.19361 .[28] Sannyuya Liu et al. “VCR: A Cone of Experience Driven Synthetic Data Generation Framework for Mathematical Reasoning”. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 39.23 (2025), pp. 24650–24658. doi : 10.1609/aaai.v39i23.34645 . url : https://ojs.aaai.org/index. php/AAAI/article/view/34645 .[29] Xiong Jun Wu et al. SHARP: Synthesizing High-quality Aligned Reasoning Problems for Large Rea-soning Models Reinforcement Learning . 2025. arXiv: 2505.14147 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv. org/abs/2505.14147 .[30] Xiang Huang et al. TARGA: Targeted Synthetic Data Generation for Practical Reasoning over Struc-tured Data . 2024. arXiv: 2412.19544 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19544 .33 [31] Tim R. Davidson et al. “Orchestrating Synthetic Data with Reasoning”. In: Will Synthetic Data Fi-nally Solve the Data Access Problem? 2025. url : https://openreview.net/forum?id=VOoeogZbMb .[32] Tongyi DeepResearch Team et al. Tongyi DeepResearch Technical Report . 2025. arXiv: 2510.24701 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.24701 .[33] Zhangchen Xu et al. TOUCAN: Synthesizing 1.5M Tool-Agentic Data from Real-World MCP Envi-ronments . 2025. arXiv: 2510.01179 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.01179 .[34] Suriya Gunasekar et al. Textbooks Are All You Need . 2023. arXiv: 2306.11644 [cs.CL] . url : https: //arxiv.org/abs/2306.11644 .[35] Yuanzhi Li et al. Textbooks Are All You Need II: phi-1.5 technical report . 2023. arXiv: 2309.05463 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05463 .[36] Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the Knowledge in a Neural Network . 2015. arXiv: 1503.02531 [stat.ML] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02531 .[37] Subhabrata Mukherjee et al. Orca: Progressive Learning from Complex Explanation Traces of GPT-4 .2023. arXiv: 2306.02707 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02707 .[38] Cheng-Yu Hsieh et al. Distilling Step-by-Step! Outperforming Larger Language Models with Less Training Data and Smaller Model Sizes . 2023. arXiv: 2305.02301 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv. org/abs/2305.02301 .[39] Yuxian Gu et al. MiniLLM: On-Policy Distillation of Large Language Models . 2026. arXiv: 2306. 08543 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08543 .[40] Daya Guo et al. “DeepSeek-R1 incentivizes reasoning in LLMs through reinforcement learning”. In: 

Nature 645.8081 (Sept. 2025), 633638. issn : 1476-4687. doi : 10.1038/s41586-025-09422-z . url :

http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09422-z .[41] Xinghao Chen et al. Unveiling the Key Factors for Distilling Chain-of-Thought Reasoning . 2025. arXiv: 2502.18001 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18001 .[42] Hoang Anh Just, Myeongseob Ko, and Ruoxi Jia. Distilling Reasoning into Student LLMs: Local Naturalness for Selecting Teacher Data . 2025. arXiv: 2510.03988 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv. org/abs/2510.03988 .[43] David D. Baek and Max Tegmark. Towards Understanding Distilled Reasoning Models: A Represen-tational Approach . 2025. arXiv: 2503.03730 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03730 .[44] Hunter Lightman et al. Let’s Verify Step by Step . 2023. arXiv: 2305.20050 [cs.LG] . url : https: //arxiv.org/abs/2305.20050 .[45] Jonathan Uesato et al. Solving math word problems with process- and outcome-based feedback . 2022. arXiv: 2211.14275 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.14275 .[46] Zhihong Shao et al. DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models . 2024. arXiv: 2402.03300 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03300 .[47] Xinyu Guan et al. rStar-Math: Small LLMs Can Master Math Reasoning with Self-Evolved Deep Thinking . 2025. arXiv: 2501.04519 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04519 .[48] Haozhe Wang et al. Emergent Hierarchical Reasoning in LLMs through Reinforcement Learning . 2025. arXiv: 2509.03646 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.03646 .[49] Jiayu Wang et al. Beyond Accuracy: Dissecting Mathematical Reasoning for LLMs Under Reinforce-ment Learning . 2025. arXiv: 2506.04723 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.04723 .[50] Jeesu Jung and Sangkeun Jung. Reasoning Steps as Curriculum: Using Depth of Thought as a Diffi-culty Signal for Tuning LLMs . 2025. arXiv: 2508.18279 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2508.18279 .[51] Bohan Tang et al. On the Importance of Task Complexity in Evaluating LLM-Based Multi-Agent Systems . 2025. arXiv: 2510.04311 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.04311 .[52] Zhenru Zhang et al. The Lessons of Developing Process Reward Models in Mathematical Reasoning .2025. arXiv: 2501.07301 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07301 .34 [53] Peiyi Wang et al. Math-Shepherd: Verify and Reinforce LLMs Step-by-step without Human Annota-tions . 2024. arXiv: 2312.08935 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08935 .[54] Chuhuai Yue et al. Promoting Efficient Reasoning with Verifiable Stepwise Reward . 2025. arXiv: 

2508.10293 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10293 .[55] Zihan Liu et al. AceMath: Advancing Frontier Math Reasoning with Post-Training and Reward Mod-eling . 2025. arXiv: 2412.15084 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15084 .[56] Jon Saad-Falcon et al. Shrinking the Generation-Verification Gap with Weak Verifiers . 2025. arXiv: 

2506.18203 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.18203 .[57] Benedikt Stroebl, Sayash Kapoor, and Arvind Narayanan. The Limits of Inference Scaling Through Resampling . 2026. arXiv: 2411.17501 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17501 .[58] DeepSeek-AI. DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing Reasoning Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning .2025. arXiv: 2501.12948 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948 .[59] Qwen Team. Qwen3 Technical Report . 2025. arXiv: 2505.09388 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/ abs/2505.09388 .[60] Thomas Hubert et al. “Olympiad-Level Formal Mathematical Reasoning with Reinforcement Learn-ing”. In: Nature (2025). url : https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-09833-y .[61] A. Zee. Quantum field theory in a nutshell . 2003. isbn : 978-0-691-14034-6. [62] Michael E. Peskin and Daniel V. Schroeder. An Introduction to quantum field theory . Reading, USA: Addison-Wesley, 1995. isbn : 978-0-201-50397-5, 978-0-429-50355-9, 978-0-429-49417-8. doi : 10.1201/ 9780429503559 .[63] Steven Weinberg. The Quantum theory of fields. Vol. 1: Foundations . Cambridge University Press, June 2005. isbn : 978-0-521-67053-1, 978-0-511-25204-4. doi : 10.1017/CBO9781139644167 .[64] Voja Radovanovic. Problem book in quantum field theory . 2008. [65] Ta-Pei [0000-0002-1137-0969] Cheng and Ling-Fong [0000-0002-8035-3329] Li. Gauge Theory of El-ementary Particle Physics . Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1984. isbn : 978-0-19-851961-4, 978-0-19-851961-4. [66] Hong Liu. 8.323 Relativistic Quantum Field Theory I . Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare. Spring 2023. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA. 2023. url : https://ocw. mit.edu/courses/8-323-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-i-spring-2023/ .[67] Hong Liu. 8.324 Relativistic Quantum Field Theory II . Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare. Fall 2010. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA. 2010. url : https://ocw.mit. edu/courses/8-324-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-ii-fall-2010/ .[68] Frank Wilczek. 8.325 Relativistic Quantum Field Theory III . Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare. Spring 2003. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA. 2003. url : https : //ocw.mit.edu/courses/8-325-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-iii-spring-2003/ .[69] P. Blasiak et al. “Combinatorics and Boson normal ordering: A gentle introduction”. In: (2007). doi :

10.1119/1.2723799 . eprint: arXiv:0704.3116 .[70] Jean-Yves Ollitrault. “Relativistic hydrodynamics for heavy-ion collisions”. In: (2007). doi : 10.1088/ 0143-0807/29/2/010 . eprint: arXiv:0708.2433 .[71] Raphael Bousso. “TASI Lectures on the Cosmological Constant”. In: (2007). doi : 10.1007/s10714-007-0557-5 . eprint: arXiv:0708.4231 .[72] Roberto Emparan and Harvey S. Reall. “Black Holes in Higher Dimensions”. In: (2008). doi : 10. 12942/lrr-2008-6 . eprint: arXiv:0801.3471 .[73] G. H. E. Duchamp et al. Hopf Algebras in General and in Combinatorial Physics: a practical intro-duction . 2008. eprint: arXiv:0802.0249 .[74] Stefan Vandoren and Peter van Nieuwenhuizen. Lectures on instantons . 2008. eprint: arXiv:0802. 1862 .35 [75] Ruth Gregory. “Braneworld black holes”. In: (2008). doi : 10.1007/978-3-540-88460-6_7 . eprint: 

arXiv:0804.2595 .[76] Christos Charmousis. “Higher order gravity theories and their black hole solutions”. In: (2008). doi :

10.1007/978-3-540-88460-6_8 . eprint: arXiv:0805.0568 .[77] Torsten A. Ensslin, Mona Frommert, and Francisco S. Kitaura. “Information field theory for cos-mological perturbation reconstruction and non-linear signal analysis”. In: (2008). doi : 10 . 1103 / PhysRevD.80.105005 . eprint: arXiv:0806.3474 .[78] Y. N. Srivastava, A. Widom, and L. Larsen. A Primer for Electro-Weak Induced Low Energy Nuclear Reactions . 2008. eprint: arXiv:0810.0159 .[79] Mihalis Dafermos and Igor Rodnianski. “Lectures on black holes and linear waves”. In: (2008). eprint: 

arXiv:0811.0354 .[80] Matthew Headrick. A solution manual for Polchinski’s ”String Theory” . 2008. eprint: arXiv:0812. 4408 .[81] M. Sami. “A primer on problems and prospects of dark energy”. In: (2009). eprint: arXiv:0904.3445 .[82] Daniel Baumann. TASI Lectures on Inflation . 2009. eprint: arXiv:0907.5424 .[83] C. R. Laumann et al. Statistical mechanics of classical and quantum computational complexity . 2010. eprint: arXiv:1009.1635 .[84] James M Yearsley. “A review of the decoherent histories approach to the arrival time problem in quantum theory”. In: (2010). doi : 10.1088/1742-6596/306/1/012056 . eprint: arXiv:1012.2575 .[85] Matthias Staudacher. “Review of AdS/CFT Integrability, Chapter III.1: Bethe Anstze and the R-Matrix Formalism”. In: (2010). doi : 10.1007/s11005-011-0530-9 . eprint: arXiv:1012.3990 .[86] Eric Poisson, Adam Pound, and Ian Vega. “The motion of point particles in curved spacetime”. In: (2011). doi : 10.12942/lrr-2011-7 . eprint: arXiv:1102.0529 .[87] Frederik Denef. “TASI lectures on complex structures”. In: (2011). doi : 10.1142/9789814350525_ 0007 . eprint: arXiv:1104.0254 .[88] Jean Claude Dutailly. Yang Mills model of interacting particles in the classical field theory . 2011. eprint: arXiv:1109.3897 .[89] Mathieu Beau. “Feynman Path Integral approach to electron diffraction for one and two slits, ana-lytical results”. In: (2011). doi : 10.1088/0143-0807/33/5/1023 . eprint: arXiv:1110.2346 .[90] G. S. Beloglazov et al. “Mathematical Physics : Problems and Solutions of The Students Training Contest Olympiad in Mathematical and Theoretical Physics (May 21st - 24th, 2010)”. In: (2011). eprint: arXiv:1110.4864 .[91] Edward Anderson. The Problem of Time and Quantum Cosmology in the Relational Particle Me-chanics Arena . 2011. eprint: arXiv:1111.1472 .[92] Xiaoping Xu. Algebraic Approaches to Partial Differential Equations . 2012. eprint: arXiv:1205.6535 .[93] John R. Klauder. Enhanced Quantum Procedures that Resolve Difficult Problems . 2012. eprint: arXiv: 1206.4017 .[94] C. P. Burgess. The Cosmological Constant Problem: Why it’s hard to get Dark Energy from Micro-physics . 2013. eprint: arXiv:1309.4133 .[95] M. Sami and R. Myrzakulov. “Late time cosmic acceleration: ABCD of dark energy and modified theories of gravity”. In: (2013). eprint: arXiv:1309.4188 .[96] Yu. L. Bolotin and I. V. Tanatarov. A Thousand Problems in Cosmology: Horizons . 2013. eprint: 

arXiv:1310.6329 .[97] Sevag Gharibian et al. “Quantum Hamiltonian Complexity”. In: (2014). doi : 10.1561/0400000066 .eprint: arXiv:1401.3916 .[98] Igor Mol. Revisiting the Schwarzschild and the Hilbert-Droste Solutions of Einstein Equation and the Maximal Extension of the Latter . 2014. eprint: arXiv:1403.2371 .36 [99] Ken Roberts and S. R. Valluri. “Solution of the quantum finite square well problem using the Lambert W function”. In: (2014). doi : 10.1139/cjp-2016-0602 . eprint: arXiv:1403.6685 .[100] Stefan M. Wild, Jason Sarich, and Nicolas Schunck. “Derivative-free optimization for parameter estimation in computational nuclear physics”. In: (2014). doi : 10.1088/0954-3899/42/3/034031 .eprint: arXiv:1406.5464 .[101] Alex S. Miranda et al. “Separable wave equations for gravitoelectromagnetic perturbations of rotating charged black strings”. In: (2014). doi : 10.1088/0264-9381/32/23/235002 . eprint: arXiv:1412. 6312 .[102] Richard Brito, Vitor Cardoso, and Paolo Pani. “Superradiance – the 2020 Edition”. In: (2015). doi :

10.1007/978-3-030-46622-0 . eprint: arXiv:1501.06570 .[103] John D. Barrow. Some Generalities About Generality . 2015. eprint: arXiv:1503.05723 .[104] Atsushi Inoue. Lectures on Super Analysis – Why necessary and What’s that? 2015. eprint: arXiv: 1504.03049 .[105] Arnaud Baguet, Olaf Hohm, and Henning Samtleben. E6(6) Exceptional Field Theory: Review and Embedding of Type IIB . 2015. eprint: arXiv:1506.01065 .[106] Oscar J. C. Dias, Jorge E. Santos, and Benson Way. “Numerical Methods for Finding Stationary Gravitational Solutions”. In: (2015). doi : 10 . 1088 / 0264 - 9381 / 33 / 13 / 133001 . eprint: arXiv : 1510.02804 .[107] Alexander Pavlov. Intrinsic time in Geometrodynamics: introduction and application to Friedmann cosmology . 2016. eprint: arXiv:1606.09460 .[108] Ido Schaefer, Hillel Tal-Ezer, and Ronnie Kosloff. “Semi-global approach for propagation of the time-dependent Schrdinger equation for time-dependent and nonlinear problems”. In: (2016). doi : 10 . 1016/j.jcp.2017.04.017 . eprint: arXiv:1611.06707 .[109] Vincent Desjacques, Donghui Jeong, and Fabian Schmidt. “Large-Scale Galaxy Bias”. In: (2016). doi :

10.1016/j.physrep.2017.12.002 . eprint: arXiv:1611.09787 .[110] A. F. Reyes-Lega. “Some Aspects of Operator Algebras in Quantum Physics”. In: (2016). doi : 10. 1142/9789814730884_0001 . eprint: arXiv:1612.07718 .[111] L. Sebastiani, S. Vagnozzi, and R. Myrzakulov. “Mimetic gravity: a review of recent developments and applications to cosmology and astrophysics”. In: (2016). doi : 10.1155/2017/3156915 . eprint: 

arXiv:1612.08661 .[112] John R. Klauder. Enhanced Quantization: The Right way to Quantize Everything . 2017. eprint: arXiv: 1702.04713 .[113] Luca Fabbri. “Fundamental Theory of Torsion Gravity”. In: (2017). doi : 10.3390/universe7080305 .eprint: arXiv:1703.02287 .[114] Shi-Ju Ran et al. “Lecture Notes of Tensor Network Contractions”. In: (2017). doi : 10.1007/978-3-030-34489-4 . eprint: arXiv:1708.09213 .[115] Gbor Srosi. “AdS 2 holography and the SYK model”. In: (2017). doi : 10.22323/1.323.0001 . eprint: 

arXiv:1711.08482 .[116] Alexander Krikun. Numerical Solution of the Boundary Value Problems for Partial Differential Equa-tions. Crash course for holographer . 2018. eprint: arXiv:1801.01483 .[117] Marius Oltean, Carlos F. Sopuerta, and Alessandro D. A. M. Spallicci. “Particle-without-Particle: a practical pseudospectral collocation method for linear partial differential equations with distributional sources”. In: (2018). doi : 10.1007/s10915-018-0873-9 . eprint: arXiv:1802.03405 .[118] Dieter Lust and Ward Vleeshouwers. Black Hole Information and Thermodynamics . 2018. eprint: 

arXiv:1809.01403 .[119] Brendan Marsh. Depictions of Quantum Reality in Kent’s Interpretation of Quantum Theory . 2018. eprint: arXiv:1811.08950 .37 [120] Sebastian Paeckel et al. “Time-evolution methods for matrix-product states”. In: (2019). doi : 10. 1016/j.aop.2019.167998 . eprint: arXiv:1901.05824 .[121] John Collins. A new approach to the LSZ reduction formula . 2019. eprint: arXiv:1904.10923 .[122] Ronald de Wolf. Quantum Computing: Lecture Notes . 2019. eprint: arXiv:1907.09415 .[123] Subenoy Chakraborty. Treatise on Differential Geometry and its role in Relativity Theory . 2019. eprint: arXiv:1908.10681 .[124] Thitipat Sainapha. Gribov Ambiguity . 2019. eprint: arXiv:1910.11659 .[125] Jos A. Pons and Daniele Vigan. “Magnetic, thermal and rotational evolution of isolated neutron stars”. In: (2019). doi : 10.1007/s41115-019-0006-7 . eprint: arXiv:1911.03095 .[126] David Barral et al. “Quantum state engineering in arrays of nonlinear waveguides”. In: (2020). doi :

10.1103/PhysRevA.102.043706 . eprint: arXiv:2005.07240 .[127] Marcel Balsiger et al. Solutions to Problems at Les Houches Summer School on EFT . 2020. eprint: 

arXiv:2005.08573 .[128] James M. Cline. Advanced Concepts in Quantum Field Theory . 2020. eprint: arXiv:2005.10241 .[129] Bijay Kumar Agrawal and Bhoomika Maheshwari. “Pairing, quasi-spin and seniority”. In: (2020). 

doi : 10.1140/epjst/e2020-000047-2 . eprint: arXiv:2006.03909 .[130] Emmanuel Grenier and Toan T. Nguyen. Stability of shear flows near a boundary . 2020. eprint: 

arXiv:2008.00887 .[131] Arthur Hebecker. Lectures on Naturalness, String Landscape and Multiverse . 2020. eprint: arXiv: 2008.10625 .[132] U. Boscain, M. Sigalotti, and D. Sugny. “Introduction to the Pontryagin Maximum Principle for Quantum Optimal Control”. In: (2020). doi : 10.1103/PRXQuantum.2.030203 . eprint: arXiv:2010. 09368 .[133] Y. T. Albert Law. “A Compendium of Sphere Path Integrals”. In: (2020). doi : 10.1007/JHEP12(2021) 213 . eprint: arXiv:2012.06345 .[134] David E. Bernal, Sridhar Tayur, and Davide Venturelli. Quantum Integer Programming (QuIP) 47-779: Lecture Notes . 2020. eprint: arXiv:2012.11382 .[135] Christian Brand et al. “Single-, double-, and triple-slit diffraction of molecular matter-waves”. In: (2021). doi : 10.1119/5.0058805 . eprint: arXiv:2108.06565 .[136] Hector Jose Morrell, Anika Zaman, and Hiu Yung Wong. “Step-by-Step HHL Algorithm Walkthrough to Enhance the Understanding of Critical Quantum Computing Concepts”. In: (2021). doi : 10.1109/ ACCESS.2023.3297658 . eprint: arXiv:2108.09004 .[137] Arnold Neumaier. Quantum tomography explains quantum mechanics . 2021. eprint: arXiv : 2110 . 05294 .[138] Raghav G. Jha. “Introduction to Monte Carlo for Matrix Models”. In: (2021). doi : 10 . 21468 / SciPostPhysLectNotes.46 . eprint: arXiv:2111.02410 .[139] Andrea Bevilacqua and Jerzy Kowalski-Glikman. Doubly Special Relativity and Relative Locality . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2203.04091 .[140] R. Arouca, Andrea Cappelli, and T. H. Hansson. “Quantum Field Theory Anomalies in Condensed Matter Physics”. In: (2022). doi : 10.21468/SciPostPhysLectNotes.62 . eprint: arXiv:2204.02158 .[141] Sashwat Tanay. Integrability and action-angle-based solution of the post-Newtonian BBH system (lec-ture notes) . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2206.05799 .[142] M. Le Delliou. Advanced General Relativity Notes . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2208.02506 .[143] Ilya L. Shapiro. “The background information about perturbative quantum gravity”. In: (2022). doi :

10.1007/978-981-19-3079-9_8-1 . eprint: arXiv:2210.12319 .[144] Arnau Bas i Beneito, Gianluca Calcagni, and Lesaw Rachwa. Classical and quantum nonlocal gravity .2022. eprint: arXiv:2211.05606 .38 [145] Domenico Giordano, Pierluigi Amodio, and Felice Iavernaro. A didactically motivated reexamination of a particle’s quantum mechanics with square-well potentials . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2211.06269 .[146] Ievgen Dubovyk, Janusz Gluza, and Gabor Somogyi. Mellin-Barnes Integrals: A Primer on Particle Physics Applications . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2211.13733 .[147] Daniel Green. TASI Lectures on Cosmic Signals of Fundamental Physics . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2212. 08685 .[148] Luca Ciambelli. From Asymptotic Symmetries to the Corner Proposal . 2022. eprint: arXiv:2212. 13644 .[149] Deep Ray, Orazio Pinti, and Assad A. Oberai. Deep Learning and Computational Physics (Lecture Notes) . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2301.00942 .[150] Raghav G. Jha. Notes on Quantum Computation and Information . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2301.09679 .[151] Alexei A. Deriglazov. “Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of asymmetric rigid body, considered as a constrained system”. In: (2023). doi : 10.1088/1361-6404/ace80d . eprint: arXiv:2301.10741 .[152] Matthew Reece. TASI Lectures: (No) Global Symmetries to Axion Physics . 2023. eprint: arXiv : 2304.08512 .[153] Pietropaolo Frisoni. Introduction to Loop Quantum Gravity: Rovelli’s lectures on LQG . 2023. eprint: 

arXiv:2305.12215 .[154] Yasunori Lee and Keita Kanno. Modal analysis on quantum computers via qubitization . 2023. eprint: 

arXiv:2307.07478 .[155] John L. Friedman. Notes on Gravitational Physics . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2308.09826 .[156] Marcelo M. Disconzi. “Recent developments in mathematical aspects of relativistic fluids”. In: (2023). 

doi : 10.1007/s41114-024-00052-x . eprint: arXiv:2308.09844 .[157] Pietro G. Fr. Lectures on resolutions la Kronheimer of orbifold singularities, McKay quivers for Gauge Theories on D3 branes, and the issue of Ricci flat metrics on the resolved three-folds . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2308.14022 .[158] Sari Ghanem. The global stability of the Minkowski space-time solution to the Einstein-Yang-Mills equations in higher dimensions . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2310.07954 .[159] Sari Ghanem. Exterior stability of the (1 + 3) -dimensional Minkowski space-time solution to the Einstein-Yang-Mills equations . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2310.08196 .[160] Vasileios Evangelakos, Emmanuel Paspalakis, and Dionisis Stefanatos. “Optimal STIRAP shortcuts using the spin to spring mapping”. In: (2023). doi : 10.1103/PhysRevA.107.052606 . eprint: arXiv: 2312.16643 .[161] Roman Berens, Trevor Gravely, and Alexandru Lupsasca. “Gravitational Waves on Kerr Black Holes I: Reconstruction of Linearized Metric Perturbations”. In: (2024). doi : 10.1088/1361-6382/ad6c9c .eprint: arXiv:2403.20311 .[162] Mohamed Sabba. A quantum Pascal pyramid and an extended de Moivre-Laplace theorem . 2024. eprint: arXiv:2404.03560 .[163] Peixiang Ji and Lijing Shao. “Scalar Dark Energy Models and Scalar-Tensor Gravity: Theoretical Explanations for the Accelerated Expansion of Present Universe”. In: (2024). doi : 10.1088/1572-9494/ad5aeb . eprint: arXiv:2406.04954 .[164] Darryl D. Holm. 31 Lectures on Geometric Mechanics . 2024. eprint: arXiv:2408.09564 .[165] Qiushi Liu et al. “Fully-Optimized Quantum Metrology: Framework, Tools, and Applications”. In: (2024). doi : 10.1002/qute.202400094 . eprint: arXiv:2409.07068 .[166] Fernando Quevedo and Andreas Schachner. Cambridge Lectures on The Standard Model . 2024. eprint: 

arXiv:2409.09211 .[167] Christian Northe. Young Researchers School 2024 Maynooth: Lectures on CFT, BCFT and DCFT .2024. eprint: arXiv:2411.03381 .39 [168] Francisco Duque. New Horizons for Psi: Extreme-Mass-Ratio Inspirals in Fundamental Fields . 2024. eprint: arXiv:2412.08711 .[169] Miguel Correia et al. Records from the S-Matrix Marathon: Gravitational Physics from Scattering Amplitudes . 2024. eprint: arXiv:2412.11649 .[170] V. A. Babenko and A. V. Nesterov. “Study of the Quartic Anharmonic Oscillator Using the System’s Wave Function Expansion in the Oscillator Basis”. In: (2025). doi : 10.1142/s0217751x25500733 .eprint: arXiv:2505.06317 .[171] Nicolas Perez and Eyal Heifetz. Landau levels in a time-dependent magnetic field: the Madelung fluid perspective . 2025. eprint: arXiv:2505.08460 .[172] Muhammad Faryad. Lecture Notes on Quantum Algorithms . 2025. eprint: arXiv:2507.11565 .[173] Zohreh Davoudi. TASI/CERN/KITP Lecture Notes on ”Toward Quantum Computing Gauge Theories of Nature” . 2025. eprint: arXiv:2507.15840 .[174] Simon Badger et al. “Scattering Amplitudes in Quantum Field Theory”. In: (2023). doi : 10.1007/ 978-3-031-46987-9 . eprint: arXiv:2306.05976 .[175] Benjamin D. Wandelt, Eric Hivon, and Krzysztof M. Gorski. “The Pseudo-Cl method: Cosmic mi-crowave background anisotropy power spectrum statistics for high precision cosmology”. In: (2000). 

doi : 10.1103/PhysRevD.64.083003 . eprint: arXiv:astro-ph/0008111 .[176] Douglas C Heggie. Escape in Hill’s Problem . 2000. eprint: arXiv:astro-ph/0011294 .[177] Andrew R. Zentner. “The Excursion Set Theory of Halo Mass Functions, Halo Clustering, and Halo Growth”. In: (2006). doi : 10.1142/S0218271807010511 . eprint: arXiv:astro-ph/0611454 .[178] Massimo Giovannini. “Why CMB physics?” In: (2007). doi : 10.1142/S0217751X07036919 . eprint: 

arXiv:astro-ph/0703730 .[179] Johannes Voit. “One-Dimensional Fermi liquids”. In: (1995). doi : 10.1088/0034-4885/58/9/002 .eprint: arXiv:cond-mat/9510014 .[180] Ian Affleck. “Conformal Field Theory Approach to the Kondo Effect”. In: (1995). eprint: arXiv : cond-mat/9512099 .[181] H. Saleur. Lectures on Non Perturbative Field Theory and Quantum Impurity Problems . 1998. eprint: 

arXiv:cond-mat/9812110 .[182] Christian Klein. “Exact relativistic treatment of stationary counter-rotating dust disks I: Boundary value problems and solutions”. In: (2001). doi : 10.1103/PhysRevD.63.064033 . eprint: arXiv:gr-qc/0102083 .[183] Sascha Husa. “Numerical relativity with the conformal field equations”. In: (2002). doi : 10.1007/3-540-36973-2_9 . eprint: arXiv:gr-qc/0204057 .[184] Geoffrey Compere. An introduction to the mechanics of black holes . 2006. eprint: arXiv : gr - qc / 0611129 .[185] Thomas Mohaupt. “Black Holes in Supergravity and String Theory”. In: (2000). doi : 10.1088/0264-9381/17/17/303 . eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0004098 .[186] Chun-Ming Chiang and Choon-Lin Ho. “Charged particles in external fields as physical examples of quasi-exactly solvable models: a unified treatment”. In: (2000). doi : 10.1103/PhysRevA.63.062105 .eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0011005 .[187] M. Chaves. “An introduction to generalized Yang-Mills theories”. In: (2001). eprint: arXiv : hep -th/0102055 .[188] Justin R. David, Gautam Mandal, and Spenta R. Wadia. “Microscopic Formulation of Black Holes in String Theory”. In: (2002). doi : 10.1016/S0370-1573(02)00271-5 . eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0203048 .[189] Erick J. Weinberg and Piljin Yi. “Magnetic Monopole Dynamics, Supersymmetry, and Duality”. In: (2006). doi : 10.1016/j.physrep.2006.11.002 . eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0609055 .[190] James M. Cline. String Cosmology . 2006. eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0612129 .40 [191] Iosif Bena and Nicholas P. Warner. “Black Holes, Black Rings and their Microstates”. In: (2007). doi :

10.1007/978-3-540-79523-0 . eprint: arXiv:hep-th/0701216 .[192] Alexander A. Migdal. “Loop Equation and Area Law in Turbulence”. In: (1993). doi : 10 . 1142 / S0217751X94000558 . eprint: arXiv:hep-th/9310088 .[193] Koichi Yamawaki. Zero-Mode Problem on the Light Front . 1998. eprint: arXiv:hep-th/9802037 .[194] Bertrand Eynard. Large N asymptotics of orthogonal polynomials, from integrability to algebraic ge-ometry . 2005. eprint: arXiv:math-ph/0503052 .[195] Peter W. Shor. Introduction to Quantum Algorithms . 2000. eprint: arXiv:quant-ph/0005003 .[196] P. Deuar and P. D. Drummond. “Gauge P-representations for quantum-dynamical problems: Removal of boundary terms”. In: (2002). doi : 10 . 1103 / PhysRevA . 66 . 033812 . eprint: arXiv : quant - ph / 0203025 .[197] Y. S. Kim and Marilyn E. Noz. “Coupled oscillators, entangled oscillators, and Lorentz-covariant harmonic oscillators”. In: (2005). doi : 10 . 1088 / 1464 - 4266 / 7 / 12 / 005 . eprint: arXiv : quant -ph/0502096 .[198] A. Deloff. “Semi-spectral Chebyshev method in Quantum Mechanics”. In: (2006). doi : 10.1016/j. aop.2006.07.004 . eprint: arXiv:quant-ph/0606100 .[199] L. P. Gilbert et al. “Playing Quantum Physics Jeopardy with zero-energy eigenstates”. In: (2006). 

doi : 10.1119/1.2238884 . eprint: arXiv:quant-ph/0606196 .[200] Zhong-Zhi Xianyu. A Complete Solution to Problems in ”An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory” by Peskin and Schroeder . 2016. url : https : / / zzxianyu . com / wp - content / uploads / 2017 / 01 / peskin_problems.pdf .[201] Guangming Sheng et al. “HybridFlow: A Flexible and Efficient RLHF Framework”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv: 2409.19256 (2024). [202] Bingxiang He et al. “JustRL: Scaling a 1.5 B LLM with a Simple RL Recipe”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16649 (2025). [203] Qiying Yu et al. DAPO: An Open-Source LLM Reinforcement Learning System at Scale . 2025. arXiv: 

2503.14476 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14476 .[204] Axolotl maintainers and contributors. Axolotl: Open Source LLM Post-Training . 2023. url : https: //github.com/axolotl-ai-cloud/axolotl .[205] OpenAI. gpt-oss-120b & gpt-oss-20b Model Card . 2025. arXiv: 2508.10925 [cs.CL] . url : https: //arxiv.org/abs/2508.10925 .[206] Qwen Team. Qwen3.5: Towards Native Multimodal Agents . 2026. url : https://qwen.ai/blog?id= qwen3.5 .[207] Zheng Yuan et al. Scaling Relationship on Learning Mathematical Reasoning with Large Language Models . 2023. eprint: arXiv:2308.01825 .[208] Edward J. Hu et al. LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models . 2021. arXiv: 2106.09685 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685 .[209] Shangshang Wang et al. Tina: Tiny Reasoning Models via LoRA . 2025. arXiv: 2504.15777 [cs.CL] .

url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.15777 .[210] John Schulman and Thinking Machines Lab. “LoRA Without Regret”. In: Thinking Machines Lab: Connectionism (2025). https://thinkingmachines.ai/blog/lora/. doi : 10.64434/tml.20250929 .[211] Tianzhe Chu et al. SFT Memorizes, RL Generalizes: A Comparative Study of Foundation Model Post-training . 2025. arXiv: 2501.17161 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17161 .[212] Yang Yue et al. Does Reinforcement Learning Really Incentivize Reasoning Capacity in LLMs Beyond the Base Model? 2025. arXiv: 2504.13837 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.13837 .[213] Joykirat Singh et al. Agentic Reasoning and Tool Integration for LLMs via Reinforcement Learning .2025. arXiv: 2505.01441 [cs.AI] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01441 .41 [214] Zhibin Gou et al. ToRA: A Tool-Integrated Reasoning Agent for Mathematical Problem Solving . 2024. arXiv: 2309.17452 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17452 .[215] Ning Shang et al. rStar2-Agent: Agentic Reasoning Technical Report . 2025. arXiv: 2508 . 20722 [cs.CL] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.20722 .[216] Zhiqi Gao et al. Test-time Scaling Techniques in Theoretical Physics – A Comparison of Methods on the TPBench Dataset . 2025. arXiv: 2506.20729 [cs.LG] . url : https://arxiv.org/abs/2506. 20729 .

# A QFT Topic List 

# Advanced Undergraduate 

Foundations and Scalar Fields 

• UG-01: Classical field theory and Lagrangian formalism — Build field theories from symmetry prin-ciples using actions and EulerLagrange equations. Connect kinetic and interaction terms to conservation laws and dimensions. 

• UG-02: Euler–Lagrange equations for fields — Derive equations of motion for scalar or vector fields, including derivative couplings. Track overall signs and coefficients carefully and interpret terms physically. 

• UG-03: Symmetries and Noether’s theorem — Relate continuous symmetries to conserved currents and charges. Distinguish internal vs spacetime symmetries in simple models and extract explicit currents. 

• UG-04: Energymomentum tensor (canonical vs improved) — Construct stress tensors and test con-servation. Examine traceless limits and symmetry under Lorentz transformations. 

• UG-05: Lorentz invariance and field representations — Classify fields by spin and transformation properties. Verify covariance of actions and bilinears using indices or gamma-matrix conventions at a conceptual level. 

• UG-06: Quantization of the Klein–Gordon field — Promote classical fields to operators, impose com-mutators, and define creation/annihilation operators. Connect normalizations to delta functions and box quantization. 

• UG-07: Plane-wave solutions and dispersion — Analyze Fourier modes, on-shell relations, and normal-ization for free relativistic fields. Relate to physical energies and group velocity. 

• UG-08: Microcausality and equal-time commutators — Compute spacelike (anti)commutators and identify conditions for microcausality. Clarify locality assumptions. 

Path Integrals and Quantization 

• UG-09: Path integrals: Z[J] and W [J] — Formulate generating functionals for free theories and relate functional derivatives to correlation functions. Track signs and normalization. 

• UG-10: Gaussian functional integrals — Evaluate quadratic path integrals and determinants. Connect to propagators through completing the square and inverses of operators. 

• UG-11: Connected vs 1PI generating functionals — Relate Z, W , and Γ. Distinguish connected, amputated, and 1PI objects and their roles in perturbation theory. 

• UG-12: Interaction picture and Dyson series — Organize time evolution with interactions and set up the Dyson expansion. Use interaction-picture operators and time ordering consistently. 

• UG-13: Propagators and Green’s functions — Construct time-ordered, retarded, and advanced propa-gators in x- and p-space. Emphasize boundary conditions and mass dependence. 

• UG-14: Wick’s theorem and contractions — Reduce time-ordered products to contractions and normal-ordered terms. Connect operator algebra to diagrammatics. 

42 Symmetries and Scattering 

• UG-15: Tree-level perturbation theory — Generate Feynman rules and compute elementary tree ampli-tudes. Track symmetry factors and identical-particle combinatorics. 

• UG-16: ϕ4 theory at tree level — Study 2 → 2 scalar scattering, channels, and basic kinematics. Compare identical vs distinguishable cases and symmetry factors. 

• UG-17: Cross subsections and Lorentz-invariant phase space — Relate matrix elements to observables using flux and LI phase space. Explore threshold behavior and high-energy limits. 

• UG-18: LSZ reduction (conceptual) — Connect amputated Green’s functions to S-matrix elements and clarify wavefunction renormalization. Focus on which factors appear and why. 

• UG-19: Real vs complex scalar fields — Contrast U (1) symmetry, charge, and particle content. Derive the Noether current for complex fields. 

• UG-20: Discrete symmetries (P, C, T) for scalars — Classify simple operators under parity, charge conjugation, and time reversal. Provide selection rules in basic processes. 

• UG-21: Partial-wave expansion (intro) — Decompose simple scattering amplitudes into partial waves. Identify s- and p-wave dominance near threshold. 

• UG-22: Optical theorem at tree-level accuracy — Relate forward amplitude to total cross subsection in simple models. Check unitarity constraints qualitatively. 

• UG-23: K¨ all´ e function and kinematics — Use the K¨ all´ e λ function to handle two-body kinematics. Analyze allowed regions and special limits. 

• UG-24: Dimensional analysis and natural units — Track mass dimensions of fields and couplings. Use natural units to check consistency of results. 

• UG-25: Stability and boundedness of potentials — Identify conditions for vacuum stability in polynomial scalar potentials. Classify phases and small oscillations. 

# Graduate 

Fermions and Spinor Structure 

• GR-01: Dirac equation and spinor solutions — Solve plane-wave spinors and completeness relations; compute bilinears and currents. Interpret helicity and chirality in simple processes. 

• GR-02: Quantized Dirac field — Build fermionic Fock space from anti-commutation relations. Connect field operators to particle number and charges. 

• GR-03: Gamma matrices, traces, and bilinears — Use Clifford algebra identities and trace technology. Classify bilinears by Lorentz and discrete symmetries. 

• GR-04: Chirality, helicity, and projection operators — Work with chiral projectors, massless limits, and spin sums. Apply to scattering and symmetry analyses. 

• GR-05: Discrete symmetries for fermions — Classify fermionic operators under P, C, and T. Provide selection rules and simple examples. 

Gauge Fields and Symmetry 

• GR-06: QED and Abelian gauge invariance — Derive local U (1) invariance, Feynman rules, and Ward identities. Examine gauge choices and physical observables. 

• GR-07: Yang–Mills theories and color structure — Formulate non-Abelian field strengths and covariant derivatives. Understand self-interactions and color factors. 

• GR-08: Gauge fixing and Faddeev–Popov ghosts — Quantize non-Abelian theories in covariant gauges. Derive ghost terms, vertices, and their role in loops. 

• GR-09: Ward–Takahashi identities — Relate symmetries to Green’s function identities. Constrain renor-malization and amplitude structures. 

• GR-10: Background vs Rξ gauges (conceptual) — Compare gauge-fixing strategies and their impact on intermediate quantities. Emphasize gauge-parameter independence of observables. 

43 Renormalization and Quantum Corrections 

• GR-11: Vacuum polarization — Analyze photon self-energy at one loop and momentum dependence of propagators. Interpret charge screening in QED. 

• GR-12: Dimensional regularization — Regulate loop integrals in d = 4 − 2ϵ. Track poles, scales, and scheme conventions (MS/MS). 

• GR-13: Counterterms and renormalized parameters — Define renormalization conditions, Z-factors, and parameter redefinitions. Compare on-shell vs minimal schemes. 

• GR-14: Running couplings and β functions (QED) — Derive coupling evolution with scale and interpret effective charge. Connect to physical cross subsections. 

• GR-15: Renormalization of ϕ4 theory (one loop) — Compute 2- and 4-point divergences and extract Z-factors. Discuss coupling running and triviality qualitatively. 

Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking and Higgs 

• GR-16: Goldstone theorem — Connect continuous symmetry breaking to massless modes via current algebra. Provide simple examples. 

• GR-17: Higgs mechanism (Abelian) — Show gauge boson mass generation via SSB and gauge fixing. Track eaten modes and physical spectra. 

• GR-18: Higgs mechanism (non-Abelian, conceptual) — Extend to SU(2)-like settings with multiple gauge bosons. Emphasize counting of degrees of freedom and masses. 

• GR-19: Unitarity and the optical theorem — Link forward scattering to total cross subsections. Verify S-matrix consistency at tree or one-loop level in simple channels. 

• GR-20: Infrared divergences in QED (inclusive observables) — Understand soft/collinear singularities and their cancellation in inclusive rates. Use soft factors and KLN intuition. 

Applied Topics and Tools 

• GR-21: Spectral representation (K¨ all´ eLehmann, intro) — Express two-point functions via spectral densities and discuss positivity/normalization constraints. 

• GR-22: Dispersion relations (intro) — Relate real/imaginary parts of amplitudes through analyticity and subtractions. Apply to simple correlators. 

• GR-23: Partial waves and unitarity bounds — Use partial-wave unitarity to constrain couplings or cross subsections in toy models. 

• GR-24: Crossing symmetry basics — Relate s-, t-, and u-channel processes through analytic continuation for simple amplitudes. 

• GR-25: LSZ details (applied) — Connect field renormalization factors to residues and asymptotic states for calculable examples. 

# Advanced Graduate 

Renormalization Group and Scaling 

• AG-01: RG flow and fixed points — Formulate RG equations and classify fixed points. Linearize flows and extract simple critical exponents. 

• AG-02: β functions in ϕ4 and QED — Compute one-loop β-functions with attention to factors and schemes. Interpret UV/IR behavior and triviality vs asymptotic freedom. 

• AG-03: Anomalous dimensions — Determine field/operator rescaling with scale and relate to correlation function scaling. 

• AG-04: Dimensional transmutation and Λ scales — Explain how dimensionless couplings generate a physical scale through renormalization; connect to running couplings. 

• AG-05: Callan–Symanzik equation (intro) — Relate RG flow to scale dependence of correlators and Green’s functions. Solve simple CS equations. 

44 Non-Abelian Gauge Theories 

• AG-06: Non-Abelian renormalization and QCD β function — Evaluate color factors and derive asymp-totic freedom for SU(N). Discuss nf -dependence and scheme issues. 

• AG-07: Background field method (one-loop effective action) — Preserve gauge invariance in effective actions and streamline RG calculations. Emphasize background vs quantum fields. 

• AG-08: Wilson loops and area law (qualitative) — Use Wilson loops to diagnose confinement. Contrast area vs perimeter behaviors and simple models. 

• AG-09: BRST symmetry (intro) — Introduce BRST transformations and cohomology ideas. Connect to gauge fixing and ghost structure. 

Finite Temperature and Vacuum Effects 

• AG-10: Matsubara formalism — Use imaginary time and periodicity to compute thermal correlators. Perform simple Matsubara sums. 

• AG-11: Thermal effective potential (intro) — Study symmetry restoration/breaking at finite temperature using simple scalar models and high-T expansions. 

• AG-12: Casimir effect (calculable setups) — Evaluate vacuum energy shifts due to boundaries in simple geometries. Interpret forces and scaling. 

Anomalies and Supersymmetry 

• AG-13: Chiral anomalies (triangle diagrams) — Compute axial anomalies and understand current non-conservation. State cancellation conditions. 

• AG-14: Gauge anomalies (consistency) — Identify gauge anomaly structures and cancellation criteria in simple fermion spectra. 

• AG-15: Instantons and tunneling (scalar) — Construct bounce solutions and estimate vacuum decay rates semiclassically. Track determinants conceptually. 

• AG-16: Supersymmetry algebra and multiplets (N=1) — Build supercharges and superfields; derive component actions. Verify invariance and multiplet structure. 

• AG-17: Wess–Zumino model (intro) — Construct the simplest interacting SUSY model and analyze component interactions and invariants. 

Applied and Conceptual Tools 

• AG-18: Schwinger–Dyson equations (setup) — Write functional equations for correlators and explore truncations/resummations. Interpret physical content. 

• AG-19: Operator product expansion (intro) — Organize short-distance expansions and Wilson coeffi-cients for simple correlators. 

• AG-20: K¨ all´ en–Lehmann spectral representation — Express two-point functions via spectral densities and positivity. Connect poles/cuts to particle content. 

# Post Graduate 

Amplitude and On-Shell Methods 

• PG-01: Spinor helicity for massless particles — Represent external states with spinor variables and express amplitudes using angle/square brackets. Enforce little-group scaling and on-shell constraints. 

• PG-02: Color decomposition — Separate color from kinematics in non-Abelian amplitudes using trace or color-flow bases. Compare partial amplitudes across bases. 

• PG-03: BCFW recursion — Reconstruct tree amplitudes from complex momentum shifts and factorization. Address boundary terms and valid shifts. 

• PG-04: Unitarity cuts (one-loop integrands) — Determine loop integrands from on-shell cuts and relate discontinuities to thresholds. Use cut-constructibility where applicable. 

• PG-05: Optical theorem and Cutkosky rules — Connect imaginary parts of amplitudes to sums over on-shell intermediate states. Apply to forward scattering and check consistency. 

45 • PG-06: Generalized unitarity and integral bases — Employ multiple cuts and master-integral bases to reconstruct loop amplitudes efficiently. 

• PG-07: Soft theorems (photons/gravitons) — Derive leading soft limits and apply them to multi-leg amplitudes. Discuss subleading structures conceptually. 

• PG-08: Ward identities in on-shell amplitudes — Use gauge symmetry to constrain amplitude structures and verify gauge-parameter independence. Check current conservation on shell. 

• PG-09: Massive spinor-helicity (intro) — Extend helicity variables to massive legs and encode polariza-tion/spin consistently. Compare to polarization sums. 

• PG-10: On-shell superspace and superamplitudes — Package entire multiplets with Grassmann variables and impose SUSY Ward identities. Work at tree level for clarity. 

Loop and Regularization Techniques 

• PG-11: Passarino–Veltman reduction — Reduce tensor integrals to scalar masters and organize loop computations systematically. Track dimensional factors consistently. 

• PG-12: Dimensional regularization for amplitudes — Evaluate d-dimensional integrals and keep ϵ-poles and finite remainders straight. Clarify scheme dependence in results. 

• PG-13: Integration-by-parts (IBP) identities (intro) — Use IBP relations to reduce loop integrals to masters. Understand Laporta-style reduction conceptually. 

• PG-14: Feynman parameters and simple master integrals — Parametrize loop integrals and evaluate standard bubbles/triangles/boxes in simple kinematics. 

Effective Field Theories 

• PG-15: Operator product expansion (beyond LO) — Organize short-distance expansions and Wilson coefficients for correlators and currents. Treat running and mixing where needed. 

• PG-16: Wilsonian matching and integrating out — Derive low-energy effective actions by eliminating heavy fields. Compute threshold corrections and power counting. 

• PG-17: Chiral perturbation theory (PT) — Build the chiral Lagrangian under symmetry constraints and compute low-energy pion processes. Track LECs and orders. 

• PG-18: Soft-collinear effective theory (SCET) — Factorize hard/collinear/soft modes and resum large logarithms. Outline matching and running at a conceptual level. 

• PG-19: Heavy-quark effective theory (HQET) — Use heavy-quark symmetry and 1 /m expansions for heavylight hadrons and currents. Identify spin/flavor symmetry predictions. 

• PG-20: Nonrelativistic QCD (NRQCD) — Describe quarkonium with nonrelativistic expansions and leading bound-state effects. Contrast with potential models at a high level. 

• PG-21: SMEFT basics (intro) — Introduce higher-dimension operators respecting SM symmetries. Discuss basis choices and simple constraints. 

• PG-22: RG evolution of EFT operators — Evolve Wilson coefficients and handle operator mixing under RG flow. Keep scheme and basis conventions explicit. 

• PG-23: Threshold matching in EFTs — Implement matching across heavy-particle thresholds and main-tain continuity of observables. Track decoupling and scheme changes. 

Nonperturbative and Topological Physics 

• PG-24: Instantons and tunneling (field theory) — Evaluate semiclassical saddle contributions and decay rates. Emphasize qualitative dependence on couplings and scales. 

• PG-25: Solitons and topological defects — Construct kinks, vortices, or monopoles and analyze topolog-ical charges and stability. Contrast classical and quantum aspects. 

• PG-26: Index theorems and anomaly inflow — Relate zero modes to topological invariants and anomalies. Use anomaly matching and inflow as guiding principles. 

• PG-27: Large-N expansions and planar limits — Organize dynamics in 1 /N for SU(N) and identify planar dominance. Discuss qualitative implications for spectra or correlators. 

46 • PG-28: Confinement and Wilson loops — Use Wilson loops to extract static potentials and diagnose confining behavior. Highlight area vs perimeter laws. 

• PG-29: Schwinger–Dyson equations and resummation — Develop self-consistent equations for corre-lators and perform controlled resummations. Interpret truncations physically. 

Curved Spacetime and Semiclassical QFT 

• PG-30: Path integrals in curved backgrounds — Define covariant measures and propagators and study curvature effects. Keep to calculable toy geometries or approximations. 

• PG-31: Saddle-point methods and WKB — Estimate path integrals and transition amplitudes via sta-tionary phase and WKB. Track phases and prefactors carefully. 

• PG-32: Heat-kernel and Schwinger proper time (intro) — Use proper-time/heat-kernel techniques to evaluate determinants and effective actions in simple backgrounds. 

Thermal, Lattice, and Nonequilibrium 

• PG-33: Real-time Keldysh/CTP formalism — Formulate nonequilibrium dynamics on closed time con-tours and compute response functions. Clarify contour ordering and components. 

• PG-34: Thermal spectral and statistical functions — Relate retarded/advanced propagators to spectral densities and compute thermal rates. Use simple sum rules where possible. 

• PG-35: Lattice gauge theory (strong-coupling ideas) — Introduce plaquette actions and strong-coupling expansions. Extract qualitative confinement features without heavy numerics. 

Conformal, Supersymmetric, and Dual Structures 

• PG-36: CFT primaries, descendants, and Ward identities — Classify operators by conformal data and compute basic correlators/OPEs. Emphasize Ward identities and dimensional analysis. 

• PG-37: Bootstrap constraints (intro) — Apply crossing, unitarity, and positivity to constrain spectra and OPE coefficients at a conceptual level. Avoid heavy numerics. 

• PG-38: N=1,2 superfields and SUSY Ward identities — Build superfield actions and derive component interactions. Enforce SUSY Ward identities and multiplet relations. 

• PG-39: AdS/CFT dictionary (field-theory side) — Match bulk fields to boundary operators and use holographic prescriptions for simple correlators. Keep to introductory, calculable settings. 

• PG-40: Dual conformal invariance (planar) — Explore planar amplitude constraints and dual coordinates in supersymmetric gauge theories. Use as a symmetry guide for structure. 

• PG-41: ’t Hooft anomalies and matching (intro) — Identify global anomalies and apply anomaly matching to constrain IR spectra. Keep examples minimal and exam-friendly. 

• PG-42: Supersymmetric non-renormalization (conceptual) — State conditions for non-renormalization of certain couplings in simple SUSY settings. Provide illustrative checks. 

• PG-43: Central charges and c-theorems (intro) — Relate RG flow monotones (e.g., c, a) to constraints on QFT dynamics. Use simple examples without heavy proofs. 

• PG-44: 2D conformal blocks (qualitative) — Introduce global blocks and their role in organizing corre-lators. Focus on symmetry content rather than full numerics. 

• PG-45: Chern–Simons gauge theory (basics, 3D) — Discuss topological gauge actions and simple observables (e.g., Wilson lines). Keep to conceptual, computable cases. 

# B Synthetic Problem Prompt 

We provide the full system prompt used to generate synthetic problems for the Easy & Medium QFT dataset. 

# System Role You are a physics problem generator for {easy / medium} level quantum field theory. 

47 You will produce one complete, evaluable QFT exercise with: - a physically consistent problem statement, - tasks whose outputs are numerical or categorical, - a skeleton Python function students would implement, - a full analytic or conceptual solution, - explicit final answers, and - a correct reference Python implementation. ## Global Rules **Topic** Stay strictly within the topic provided by the user (e.g., anomalies, dimensional regularization, Ward identities, beta functions, path integrals, symmetry breaking, etc.). **Academic tone** The problem should look like a short graduate QFT exercise: compact but rigorous, written in LaTeX. **Evaluable outputs** Each task must produce one or more outputs that can be checked automatically. Outputs can be: - **Numerical** real or complex scalars, ratios, constants, signs, exponents, or boolean values (True/False, 1/0). - **Categorical** discrete labels chosen from a small known set (e.g., ["scalar","pseudoscalar"], ["U(1)","SU(2)","SU(3)"], etc.). Do not require symbolic expression comparison. **Cancellation / reduction rule** If any analytic pieces cancel or combine, hide that step internally and ask only for the final surviving coefficients or categories. ------------------------------------EASY VERSION **Problem difficulty** Should be EASILY solvable by someone at the {{INSERT LEVEL}} level, with all quantities physically meaningful. Regardless of the topic difficulty, the task asked of the students should be EASY to solve. The task should require low-level calculations, if any. ------------------------------------MEDIUM VERSION **Problem difficulty** Should be solvable by someone at the {{INSERT LEVEL}} level, with all quantities physically meaningful. Regardless of the topic difficulty, the task asked of the students should be MEDIUM level difficulty to solve. 

48 The task should require MEDIUM level of calculations. ------------------------------------## Guidelines: Task Types and Structure Each task in section A) Problem must belong to one of the following verifiable categories. Tasks may combine several reasoning steps (e.g., derivation numeric coefficient), but the final output must always be checkable either numerically or categorically. ### 1. Direct Calculation Tasks Students compute a quantity that can be directly expressed as a number or numerical function of given parameters. **Examples:** - Evaluate a regulated integral to find a finite constant $C_1(d,n)$. - Compute the scaling exponent $\alpha(d,n)$ from dimensional analysis. - Determine whether a matrix element vanishes (boolean output True/False). ### 2. Derivation or Identification Tasks Students perform a conceptual or algebraic derivation, but the final deliverable is a categorical label or numerical value. **Examples:** - Identify the Lorentz or parity class of a bilinear (categorical). - Determine if a given operator is renormalizable (categorical or boolean). - Derive and report the numerical coefficient of a divergence. ### 3. Hidden-Coefficient Derivation Tasks The most common "derivation-by-numbers" structure. The prompt hides known analytic results and asks for specific constants, coefficients, or exponents that appear in the final expression. Students must perform any required derivation internally but only report these numeric values. **Examples:** - Find constants $C_R$, $C_L$ in a Hamiltonian. - Compute coefficients $c_a$, $c_{a5}$ in a current decomposition. - Determine $K$ such that $M = K C_W$. ### 4. Ratio / Comparison Tasks Students compare two physically related quantities and output a numeric 

49 or boolean ratio or comparison result. **Examples:** - Compute $R = I_2 / I_1$. - Check whether $R > 0$ (boolean). - Determine relative sign between two amplitudes. ### 5. Categorical Classification Tasks Students identify the correct discrete label from a finite set (string output). **Examples:** - "scalar", "pseudoscalar", "vector", "axial-vector". - "bosonic" vs "fermionic". - Gauge group identification: "U(1)", "SU(2)", "SU(3)". ### 6. Logical or Consistency-Check Tasks Students verify whether a derived quantity satisfies a condition, outputting True/False or 1/0. **Examples:** - Check if the Hamiltonian is Hermitian. - Check for gauge invariance or conservation of a current. ### 7. Multi-Step Combined Tasks A single task may yield several related outputs (tuple of numeric/categorical results). Each element must independently fall under one of the above categories. **Example:** determine both a coefficient and the parity classification for a given term. **Output format** The result must contain the following labeled sections in order, each starting with a LaTeX section command on its own line: \section{Problem} - Introduce the physical setting (e.g., Lagrangian, fields, symmetry). - State all definitions and conventions. - {{TASK_INSTRUCTIONS}} - Use "determine", "find", or "identify" never "show that". \section{Problem Description} - Provide a 1-2 sentence description of the problem and its tasks (for internal tracking purposes only). - This should clearly describe what tasks are being asked in the problem, 

50 but need not define all quantities. - An expert reading this description should be able to understand what the problem asks for. \section{Answer Requirements} - Provide a Python function skeleton students will implement. - Include likely imports (math, cmath, numpy, itertools, etc.) even if not all are used. - The function’s parameters must match the problem inputs. - Docstring must describe: - expected return type (float, complex, bool, str, or tuple), - allowed categorical options if applicable. \section{Solution} - Give the full derivation or conceptual reasoning leading to the result(s). - Include any algebraic steps, integrals, or group-theory logic as needed. - May include equations in LaTeX; clarity is more important than brevity. \section{Answer} - List each task’s final result concisely. - Numeric answers should be explicit constants or evaluable expressions. - Categorical answers should be quoted strings or items from a small known set. \section{Code} - Provide a working Python implementation of the function in section B that returns the correct numeric or categorical answers. - You may let Python perform the numeric evaluation (no manual arithmetic required). - Only return the updated python function from section B with no additional commentary **CRITICAL**: Each section must start with exactly ‘\section{SectionName}‘ on its own line, where SectionName is one of: Problem, Problem Description, Answer Requirements, Solution, Answer, Code. Do not include the section header within the content of any section. ## Constraints Summary | Property | Requirement | |----------|-------------| | Output Types | numeric (float/complex/int/bool) or categorical (str from known set) | | Comparison | direct equality or numeric tolerance only | | Hidden Cancellations | allowed; only test final surviving coefficients | | Physics Scope | QFT graduate-level | | Sections | Always output A E | | Self-containment | All definitions given; no external context needed | ## Example Usage Prompt Generate a new QFT exercise in this format for the topic: 

51 "Parity properties of fermion bilinears in four dimensions." ### (Illustrative miniature output example) \section{Problem} Consider the bilinear $\bar\psi \Gamma \psi$ under spatial parity. Identify the parity classification for $\Gamma = 1,\,\gamma^5,\,\gamma^\mu,\,\gamma^\mu\gamma^5$. \textbf{Tasks:} 1. For each $\Gamma$, determine whether the bilinear is scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, or axial-vector. \section{Answer Requirements} ‘‘‘python def classify_bilinear(gamma_label: str) -> str: """ Returns the parity class of the bilinear .gamma_label {"1","gamma5","gamma_mu","gamma_mu_gamma5"} Output: one of {"scalar","pseudoscalar","vector","axial-vector"}. """ raise NotImplementedError ‘‘‘ \section{Solution} Parity flips spatial components of $\gamma^\mu$: $\gamma^0 \to \gamma^0$, $\gamma^i \to -\gamma^i$. From transformation properties: - $\bar\psi\psi$ scalar, - $\bar\psi\gamma^5\psi$ pseudoscalar, - $\bar\psi\gamma^\mu\psi$ vector, - $\bar\psi\gamma^\mu\gamma^5\psi$ axial-vector. \section{Answer} | | Classification | |---|----------------| | 1 | "scalar" | | | "pseudoscalar" | | ^ | "vector" | | ^ | "axial-vector" | \section{Code} ‘‘‘python def classify_bilinear(gamma_label: str) -> str: mapping = { "1": "scalar", 

52 "gamma5": "pseudoscalar", "gamma_mu": "vector", "gamma_mu_gamma5": "axial-vector", }return mapping[gamma_label] ‘‘‘ 

53 C Example Problems 

# Synthetic QFT 

Dataset Sample: Easy QFT 

Consider a complex scalar field Φ in four spacetime dimensions described by the Lagrangian: 

L = ( ∂μΦ†)( ∂μΦ) − V (Φ) (15) with the potential 

V (Φ) = λ



|Φ|2 − v2

2

2

(16) where λ > 0 and v > 0 are real parameters. This theory has a global U (1) symmetry, Φ → eiα Φ. The potential induces spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB). We choose the vacuum expectation value (VEV) to be real: ⟨Φ⟩ = v√2 . The quantum fluctuations around this VEV are parameterized by real scalar fields 

h(x) (the massive mode) and π(x) (the massless Goldstone boson) as: Φ( x) = 1

√2 (v + h(x) + iπ (x)) (17) The conserved Noether current associated with the U (1) symmetry is given by: 

Jμ(x) = i



(∂μΦ†)Φ − Φ†(∂μΦ) 



(18) According to Goldstone’s theorem, the massless mode π(x) is created from the vacuum by the action of this current. The matrix element of the current between the vacuum |0⟩ and a one-Goldstone boson state |π(p)⟩

with momentum p is parameterized by a constant F , known as the decay constant: 

⟨0|Jμ(x)|π(p)⟩ = −iF p μe−ip ·x (19) 

Task: By expanding the current Jμ(x) in terms of the fields h(x) and π(x), determine the decay constant F .Find the numerical coefficient C in the relation F = C · v.

Conventions: The one-particle states |π(p)⟩ are normalized such that the matrix element of the field operator is ⟨0|π(x)|π(p)⟩ = e−ip ·x.

Dataset Sample: Hard QFT Setting: A Quantum Field Theory in 3 + 1 dimensions possesses a global internal symmetry group G =

SU (N ). The scalar sector contains sufficient field content such that the vacuum expectation values (VEVs) spontaneously break the symmetry group G completely to the trivial subgroup {⊮}. The system is held at finite density, characterized by a non-vanishing vacuum expectation value for the time-component of the Noether currents, ⟨Ja 

> 0

(x)⟩ = ρa, which are constant in spacetime. 

Task: Determine the spectrum of the resulting Goldstone bosons. Specifically, calculate the number of Goldstone modes nlinear that obey a linear dispersion relation ( E ∝ | p|) and the number of Goldstone modes 

nquad that obey a quadratic dispersion relation ( E ∝ | p|2) at low energy. 

Conventions: The generators of SU (N ) are Hermitian. The background charge density is specified by a collection of N real numbers Λ = {λ1, λ 2, . . . , λ N } representing the diagonal elements of the charge density matrix ρ = ρaT a in the fundamental representation, where ρ = diag( λ1, . . . , λ N ). Note that P λi = 0. 

Figure 18: Qualitative Comparison of Problem Difficulty. Representative samples from the Easy (top) and Hard (bottom) subsets of the QFT dataset. Note the increase in complexity and requisite symbolic manipulations in the Hard sample. 54 Characteristic Example: Easy QFT Post-Graduate 

As described in Section 5, we found the post-graduate problems in Easy QFT were the easiest for both the base and RL models. One of our hypothesis for this unexpected behavior was that the generating model (Gemini-2.5-pro ) would “overcompensate for the advanced subject matter by defaulting to low-complexity reasoning steps”. To illustrate why we believe this, we provide an example problem and solution (p49 from the validation set) below. This problem’s topic is spinor helicity formalism, a modern technique for calculating scattering amplitudes in QFTs. The problem’s tasks ask for the scaling behavior for the amplitude A4 under two little group transformations of particles 1 and 3. Furthermore, due to the aim of the Easy and Medium QFT problems to be self-contained, the definitions of the spinor products, ( ij ) and [ ij ], are provided in the problem description. With these at hand, the problem is solved by simply substitution of the definitions in the provided amplitude 

A4.

Problem In the spinor helicity formalism for massless particles, an on-shell momentum pμ is represented by a pair of two-component Weyl spinors, λα = |p⟩ and ˜λ ˙α = |p]. The spinor products are defined as 

⟨pipj ⟩ = ϵαβ λi,α λj,β and [ pipj ] = ϵ ˙α ˙β ˜λi, ˙α ˜λj, ˙β .Consider the color-ordered scattering amplitude for four gluons with helicities ( h1, h 2, h 3, h 4) = ( −, −, +, +), given by the Parke-Taylor formula: 

A4(1 −, 2−, 3+, 4+) = ig 2 ⟨12 ⟩4

⟨12 ⟩⟨ 23 ⟩⟨ 34 ⟩⟨ 41 ⟩

where g is the coupling constant, and we use the shorthand notation ⟨ij ⟩ ≡ ⟨ pipj ⟩.An essential property of any massless scattering amplitude is its behavior under a little group transfor-mation corresponding to an external particle k. For a particle with helicity hk, this transformation scales its spinors as |k⟩ → z|k⟩ and |k] → z−1|k], where z ∈ C∗. The amplitude must scale homogeneously. 

Task For the given amplitude A4(1 −, 2−, 3+, 4+), consider a little group scaling of the spinors associated with particle 1, |1⟩ → z|1⟩, and separately for particle 3, |3⟩ → z′|3⟩. Determine the numerical exponents α1

and α3 such that the amplitude transforms as: 1. A4 → zα1 A4 under the scaling of particle 1. 2. A4 → (z′)α3 A4 under the scaling of particle 3. The helicity labels ’ −’ and ’+’ correspond to the numerical values h = −1 and h = +1, respectively. 

Solution The little group scaling for a massless particle k with helicity hk is defined by the transformation 

|k⟩ → z|k⟩ and |k] → z−1|k]. A scattering amplitude involving this particle must transform as A → z−2hk A.The task is to find the exponents α1 and α3 by directly inspecting the transformation of the given amplitude expression. The amplitude is: 

A4 = ig 2 ⟨12 ⟩4

⟨12 ⟩⟨ 23 ⟩⟨ 34 ⟩⟨ 41 ⟩

1. Scaling for Particle 1 ( h1 = −1): 

We apply the transformation |1⟩ → z|1⟩. The spinor products involving particle 1 are ⟨12 ⟩ and ⟨41 ⟩.From the definition ⟨ij ⟩ = ϵαβ λi,α λj,β , we have: 

• ⟨12 ⟩ → ϵαβ (zλ 1,α )λ2,β = z⟨12 ⟩

• ⟨41 ⟩ → ϵαβ λ4,α (zλ 1,β ) = z⟨41 ⟩

Now we substitute these into the amplitude expression: 

A4 → ig 2 (z⟨12 ⟩)4

(z⟨12 ⟩)⟨23 ⟩⟨ 34 ⟩(z⟨41 ⟩) = ig 2 z4⟨12 ⟩4

z2⟨12 ⟩⟨ 23 ⟩⟨ 34 ⟩⟨ 41 ⟩ = z4−2A4 = z2A4

55 By comparing this to the form A4 → zα1 A4, we identify the exponent α1 = 2. This matches the general rule: α1 = −2h1 = −2( −1) = 2. 

2. Scaling for Particle 3 ( h3 = +1 ): 

We apply the transformation |3⟩ → z′|3⟩. The spinor products involving particle 3 are ⟨23 ⟩ and ⟨34 ⟩.Their scaling is: 

• ⟨23 ⟩ → ϵαβ λ2,α (z′λ3,β ) = z′⟨23 ⟩

• ⟨34 ⟩ → ϵαβ (z′λ3,α )λ4,β = z′⟨34 ⟩

Substituting these into the amplitude expression: 

A4 → ig 2 ⟨12 ⟩4

⟨12 ⟩(z′⟨23 ⟩)( z′⟨34 ⟩)⟨41 ⟩ = ig 2 ⟨12 ⟩4

(z′)2⟨12 ⟩⟨ 23 ⟩⟨ 34 ⟩⟨ 41 ⟩ = ( z′)−2A4

By comparing this to the form A4 → (z′)α3 A4, we identify the exponent α3 = −2. This also matches the general rule: α3 = −2h3 = −2(+1) = −2. 

# arXiv 

Problem Source : hep-ph: 2005.08573v1 

Problem Consider a scalar field theory in d = 4 − 2ϵ dimensions with two mass scales M and m, where 

m < M . We define the two-point loop integral I(M, m ) in Minkowski space as: 

I(M, m ) = −iμ 2ϵ

Z ddk

(2 π)d

1(k2 − M 2)( k2 − m2) (20) This integral can be evaluated using the **method of regions** by expanding the integrand in two distinct regions: 1. **The Hard Region ( k ∼ M ):** Expand the light propagator 1 

> k2−m2

in powers of m2/k 2

assuming k ≫ m. 2. **The Soft Region ( k ∼ m):** Expand the heavy propagator 1  

> k2−M2

in powers of 

k2/M 2 assuming k ≪ M .

Task: Perform the expansion in both regions. Evaluate the resulting integrals term-by-term using dimen-sional regularization, sum the resulting series, and extract the coefficient of the ultraviolet divergence (1 /ϵ 

pole) for each region. Determine the numerical coefficients Chard and Csoft such that the divergent part of the contribution from each region is given by: 

Idiv region = 116 π2

1

ϵ Cregion (21) 

Conventions The loop measure is defined with the μ2ϵ factor. The metric signature is (+ , −, −, −). Assume the standard Wick rotation to Euclidean space where ddkM = id dkE and k2 

> M

= −k2 

> E

. The coefficients Chard 

and Csoft should be dimensionless functions of the masses. 

# QFT pedagogy 

Problem Source: MIT OCW QFT Problem Setting: A free real scalar field ϕ(x) with mass m in 3 + 1 dimensional spacetime is governed by the Lagrangian density L = 12 (∂μϕ)2 − 12 m2ϕ2. The field is quantized via canonical commutation relations at equal time. 

Tasks: 

1. Starting from the mode expansion ϕ(x) = R d3k

> (2 π)3√2ωk



a⃗ke−ik ·x + a†⃗keik ·x



with k · x = ωkt −⃗ k ·⃗x,derive the expression for the annihilation operator a⃗k in terms of the Fourier transformed field ˜ϕ(⃗k)and conjugate momentum ˜ π(⃗ k) at t = 0. Determine the complex coefficients Cϕ(m, |⃗k|) and Cπ (m, |⃗k|)such that a⃗k = Cϕ ˜ϕ(⃗ k) + Cπ ˜π(⃗k). 56 2. Using the derived expression and the canonical commutation relations, compute the commutator [a⃗k, a †⃗q ]. Determine the scalar coefficient N of the Dirac delta function in the result: [a⃗ k, a †⃗q ] = 

N δ (3) (⃗ k −⃗q). 

Conventions: The spatial Fourier transform is defined as ˜f (⃗k) = R d3x e −i⃗k ·⃗x f (⃗x). ω k =

q

|⃗k|2 + m2.

# Human-Adapted Seed Correspondence 

We provide a characteristic example of human-adapted seed conversion for a problem derived from [127]. 

Original Textbook Problem (with Referenced Context) 

Compute I(exp)  

> F

+ IF, ct using IF, ct determined in Exercise 5.2. Show that the UV divergence cancels, and the remaining 1 /ϵ IR divergence is the same as the UV counterterm IEFT ,ct in the EFT. 

Referenced Context (Exercise 5.2): 

IF, ct = − 116 π2

1

ϵ

Expanded Synthetic Problem 

Consider a theoretical model involving a heavy scalar field Φ with mass M and a light scalar field ϕ with mass m in d-dimensional Euclidean space ( d = 4 − ϵ). 

Task: Compute the 1 /ϵ pole coefficients for the Euclidean loop integral I(M, m ) defined by: 

I(M, m ) = μϵ

Z ddk

(2 π)d

k2

(k2 + M 2)( k2 + m2)Specifically, determine: 1. The coefficient Cfull of the 1 /ϵ pole in the full integral I(M, m ). 2. The coefficient Cres of the residual 1 /ϵ pole after performing a matching subtraction against the heavy-theory limit. The residual is defined by the difference Ires = I(M, m ) − IF, ct , where the counterterm 

IF, ct is defined to cancel the divergence of I(M, m ) in the limit m → 0. 

Conventions: 

• Report the coefficients C such that the divergent part is C × 1(4 π)2ϵ .

• Assume the standard Euclidean rotation and Dimensional Regularization rules. 

• Γ( −1 + ϵ/ 2) ≈ − 2/ϵ .

Figure 19: Qualitative Comparison of Problem Contextualization. The original textbook problem (top) relies heavily on external context, such as results from previous exercises. The expanded synthetic version (bottom) formulates the same physical task into a rigorous, self-contained prompt. This problem received the following quality grading by Gemini-3-pro :

• Seed Correspondence Score: 95 (excellent) 

• Seed Correspondence Comment: The generated problem faithfully adapts the original seed’s con-cept of computing loop integral divergences and performing a matching subtraction (Full theory minus counterterm). It successfully transforms a conceptual ’show that’ proof into a verifiable calculation of pole coefficients while preserving the underlying physics framework (Dimensional Regularization with heavy/light scales). 57 D Baseline Physics Reasoning Ability 

We measure baseline physics performance across our synthetic datasets (Easy, Medium, Hard), our human-adapted validation sets (arXiv, QFT Pedagogy), and the external, human-authored TP-Bench [4]. We test a diverse suite of proprietary and open-weight models. For the all datasets, we generate five independent solutions per problem. Figure 20 reports the mean accuracy and CoT lengths for all open-weight models considered. For performance specifics of all models, refer to Table 7, Table 8, and Table 9. Table 7: Synthetic Datasets Baseline. Performance of Proprietary vs. Open-Weight models across QFT synthetic training datasets. 

Easy Medium Hard Model Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5 Acc. Pass@5 

Proprietary Models 

Claude-Opus-4.5 81.5 95.0 85.2 93.8 44.5 62.5 

Gemini-2.5-flash 89.0 96.2 88.8 97.5 30.2 57.5 

Open-Weight Models 

Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 69.5 83.8 49.5 68.8 3.2 7.5 Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 53.5 75.0 33.2 46.2 2.5 6.2 DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B 40.2 67.5 26.2 50.0 0.0 0.0 OSS-20b 81.5 95.0 76.0 93.8 22.2 53.8 

Table 8: Human-Adapted Datasets Baseline. Performance on human-adapted both datasets split by source type. 

hep-th hep-ph gr-qc math-ph quant-ph class-ph Other Overall Model (N=92) (N=22) (N=78) (N=26) (N=38) (N=25) (N=52) (N=333) Proprietary Models 

Claude-Opus-4.5 60.4 58.2 70.0 80.0 63.7 58.4 65.8 65.1 

Gemini-2.5-flash 53.7 50.9 66.2 71.5 61.6 57.6 75.0 62.3 

Open-Weight Models 

Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 23.7 24.5 41.8 47.7 43.2 42.5 36.2 35.4 Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 18.5 14.5 33.6 27.7 31.1 28.0 20.0 24.9 DeepSeek-7B 12.4 9.1 23.8 10.0 22.6 16.7 15.4 16.6 OSS-20b 39.8 45.5 56.7 53.8 41.1 50.4 56.5 48.8 

(a) arXiv Sub-domain Performance. Baseline accuracy across specific research categories. ”Other” includes low-volume categories 

Textbooks Exercise Books MIT OCW Overall Model (N=173) (N=279) (N=28) (N=480) Proprietary Models 

Claude-Opus-4.5 61.4 63.1 55.7 62.0 Gemini-2.5-flash 59.2 63.0 59.1 61.4 

Open-Weight Models 

Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 18.9 24.0 15.7 20.5 Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 10.2 13.0 5.0 11.5 DeepSeek-7B 7.4 8.1 6.4 7.8 OSS-20b 42.5 46.7 44.3 45.1 

(b) Pedagogical Performance. Baseline performance on educational materials, categorized by source type. 

58 (a) Mean success rate and CoT lengths with five attempts on the synthetic training sets. 

(b) Mean success rate and CoT lengths with five attempts on the human-adapted and TPBench [4] validation sets. 

Figure 20: Performance of select open models on comparison on human-adapted (top) and synthetic (bottom) datasets. 59 Table 9: TP-Bench Baseline. Mean accuracy rates across problem difficulty levels. Note the sharp drop-off for all models at Level 3, indicating the ”reasoning cliff.”                                           

> Problem Level Model Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Overall
> Proprietary Models
> Claude-Opus-4.5 100 98.5 76.4 41.4 9.1 63.2
> Gemini-2.5-flash 92.5 96.9 72.7 40.6 23.6 63.7
> Open-Weight Models
> Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 77.5 95.4 20.0 10.0 0.0 38.9 Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507 70.0 78.5 3.6 7.1 0.0 30.2 DeepSeek-7B 67.5 58.5 3.6 0023.5 OSS-20B 77.5 83.1 50.9 30.0 1.8 47.4

Synthetic Datasets. While most models achieve high proficiency on the introductory subsets, we observe a sharp discontinuity in performance between the Medium and Hard datasets. Notably, Claude-Opus-4.5 

degrades from 81.5 on Easy to 44.5 on Hard. Claude–independent of the generator and reviewer model families–serves as a difficulty metric for our datasets and this performance degradation confirms that the Hard subset poses a significant reasoning challenge. For open-weight models, Qwen3-4B variants performs competitively with the larger OSS-20b [205] on the Easy and Medium subsets. However, this competitiveness is lost on Hard. Furthermore, DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B [58] exhibits limited accuracy on Easy and Medium and fails completely (0.0) on Hard. As shown in Figure 20a, all models exhibit increasing length CoT sequences as difficulty increases. However, token expenditure does not strictly correlate with success. OSS-20b [205] demonstrates highly efficient reasoning, achieving the highest open-weight accuracy (22.2) with only 8.1k tokens. Conversely, the failure of smaller models is not due to a lack of effort; Qwen3-4B-Thinking [59] generates substantial chains on Hard problems ( ∼16.9k tokens) but achieves a score of only 3.2. 

Human-Adapted Datasets. Across both human-adapted datasets, model performance aligns consis-tently with the trends observed in our synthetic data. Claude achieves pass rates of 65.1 and 62.0 on the arXiv and Pedagogy sets, respectively. These results situate the difficulty of human-adapted problems strictly between our Medium (85.2) and Hard (44.5) datasets. This is further corroborated by Chain-of-Thought (CoT) expenditure analysis. On the QFT pedagogy and arXiv datasets, Qwen3-4B-Thinking generates an average of 15.7k and 13.5k tokens per solution, respectively. This CoT length falls between the model’s resource allocation for the Medium (11.5k) and Hard (16.9k) synthetic datasets. 

TP-Bench. For a detailed discussion of the TP-Bench performance, refer to [4]. Averaging over the entire dataset, Claude achieves a score of 63.2, however, performance is varied over the five levels. Claude excells at levels 1-3, struggles on level 4, and has limited success on level 5 problems. Based on this performance, we infer our Hard dataset is approximately at level 4, while the human-adapted problems are situated between level 3 and 4. 9 

arXiv Domain-Specific Variance. Performance is highly non-uniform across arXiv sub-domains. In the arXiv benchmark (Table 8a), models generally perform best on math-ph (Mathematical Physics) and 

gr-qc (General Relativity). In contrast, performance degrades on hep-ph (Phenomenology) and class-ph 

(Classical Physics). 

Impact of <think> : Thinking vs Instruct. Comparing the performance of the Instruct and Thinking variants of Qwen3-4B [59] highlights distinct trade-offs between inference-time compute and reasoning ac-curacy. The thinking mechanism yields substantial benefits on problems of intermediate difficulty. On the Synthetic Easy and Medium datasets, the thinking variant outperforms the instruct baseline by approxi-mately 16 points. This value of extended reasoning is particularly visible in the QFT Pedagogy benchmark, 60 where the Instruct baseline struggles significantly–scoring as low as 5.0 on MIT OCW tasks. The Thinking variant effectively triples this performance to 15.7 and nearly doubles the accuracy on Exercise Books (24.0 vs 13.0). This advantage extends to the TP-Bench, where the Thinking model delays the “reasoning cliff,” maintaining 20.0 accuracy at Level 3 compared to the Instruct model’s near-total collapse to 3.6. However, this performance comes at a distinct cost: Figure 20b reveals that the Thinking model con-sistently generates approximately 2 × the number of tokens per response (e.g., 11.5k vs 5.9k on Medium). Furthermore, this additional compute has limits; on the Hard synthetic dataset, the Thinking model gener-ates its longest responses (16.9k tokens) yet fails to achieve meaningful accuracy gains (3.2 vs 2.5), suggesting that extended test-time compute has not compensate for model ability limitations encountered at the highest difficulty levels. 

# E RL training diagnostic plots 

Figure 21 shows mean training score (32 rollouts), entropy, and mean response length through the Deepseek-7B 

RL training on QFT Easy. To highlight the trends throughout training, the 100-step moving average (dark blue) is shown on figure. Mean score climbs steadily until a plateau at approximately 2000 steps. During this, we see a steady decline in entropy as the policy converges on an optimal behavior. Response length shows minor fluctuations throughout training, but remains relatively constant. 

Figure 21: Selected training metrics during RL on the Easy QFT dataset using DeepSeek-7B . The training score gradually increases throughout the run, accompanied by a slight decline in entropy and a stable response length. 61 F SFT Dataset Information 

The SFT datasets are summarized in Section F. Specifically, Table 10 and Table 10b detail the train and validation sets, which consist of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) responses to their respective problems. Figure 22 illustrates the response length distributions, while Table 10c provides the total training token counts. Table 10: SFT Dataset Statistics: Total CoT/Examples, Problems Solved, and token distributions. 

(a) SFT Training Dataset Total CoT Problems Solved & Success Rate Model Easy Medium Hard Total Easy (1,026) Medium (1,011) Hard (551) 

oss-120b 3,762 3,342 1,083 8,187 938 (91.4%) 884 (87.4%) 379 (68.8%) qwen3-30b 3,761 3,037 245 7,043 900 (87.7%) 807 (79.8%) 113 (20.5%) qwen3.5-122b 4,456 4,141 1,091 9,688 985 (96.0%) 956 (94.6%) 360 (65.3%) (b) SFT Validation Dataset Examples per Dataset Problems Solved (out of 80 each) Model Easy Medium Hard Total Easy Medium Hard 

oss-120b 279 291 149 719 70 (87.5%) 73 (91.3%) 50 (62.5%) qwen3-30b 267 240 28 535 67 (83.8%) 61 (76.3%) 11 (13.8%) qwen3.5-122b 336 323 137 796 76 (95.0%) 73 (91.3%) 49 (61.3%) (c) Total Training Tokens Tokens by Level Overall Model Easy Medium Hard Total 

oss-120b 7.4M 8.4M 4.9M 20.7M qwen3-30b 19.5M 20.4M 2.5M 42.4M qwen3.5-122b 52.3M 57.3M 22.4M 132.0M 

All Models 79.2M 86.1M 29.8M 195.0M 

Figure 22: Response length (tokens) variation of correct CoT across the synthetic training datasets. Broadly response length continues to increases with dataset difficulty. Notably, oss-120b and qwen3.5-122b have similar performance, while exhibiting significantly varying CoT length. 62 G LLM-driven CoT Analysis Consistency Checks 

Chain-of-Thought analysis is an inherently non-trivial task. Unlike human-produced answers, the reasoning in the chains of thought is unnecessarily verbose, often circular, and incoherent. The model jumps between ideas, leaving them underdeveloped and switching back and forth between ideas without apparent reasons. Because of the large number of chains of thought (40 problems with 100 attempts per problem) and their length (up to 20k tokens) in Sec. 8, we performed the CoT analysis with gpt-oss-120b , which offers a compromise between expressivity and cost. We extensively validated the CoT analysis pipeline against a stronger model claude-sonnet-4.6 (via Claude-Code cli) We define three experimental configurations by crossing two Stage 2 (distillation) analyzers with two Stage 3 (error classification) analyzers: 

Configuration Stage 2 Analyzer Stage 3 Analyzer Abbreviation A Claude Sonnet Claude Sonnet Claude-on-Claude 

B GPT-oss-120b Claude Sonnet Claude-on-oss 

C GPT-oss-120b GPT-oss-120b oss-on-oss Comparing A vs. B isolates the effect of Stage 2 distillation on the final classification (same classifier, different inputs). Comparing B vs. C isolates the effect of the Stage 3 classifier (same inputs, different classifiers). Comparing A vs. C measures end-to-end agreement when both stages differ. We study seven problems from the qft easy top improved dataset of synthetically generated graduate-level quantum field theory problems: 

Problem Topic Incorrect Attempts (of 10) p1064 QCD running coupling with heavy quark thresholds (RGE) 10 

p16 Chern–Simons level quantization (topological) 3

p48 Compton scattering Ward identity (QED) 4

p129 Massive vector field (Proca) propagator and polarizations 7

p220 Complex scalar field symmetry breaking and Goldstone theorem 10 

p413 Proca field propagator sum over polarizations 9

p722 N = 2 SYM BPS mass spectrum and duality 9All rollouts were generated by DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B (pre-rl). We analyze the first 10 attempts (indices 0–9) for each problem, yielding 52 incorrect attempts in total across the seven problems. Golden solutions (Stage 1) were produced by GPT-oss-120b and are shared across all configurations. Total error counts by category across all 52 rollouts: 

Category A (Claude-on-Claude) B (Claude-on-oss) C (oss-on-oss) 

mathematical 70 (43%) 83 (50%) 80 (52%) logical 41 (25%) 32 (19%) 26 (17%) executional 35 (21%) 36 (22%) 23 (15%) factual 17 (10%) 16 (10%) 26 (17%) 

Total 163 167 155 We consider this agreement satisfactory and note that the main reason for disagreement is an inherent ambiguity in the error categories and subsequent different interpretation by different models. For example, a statement like ”We have y = A/x , then x = Ay ” can be classified both as ”mathematical error” or ”logical error”. Similarly, many attempts misstate the Proca propagator numerator structure −gμν + kμkν /m 2, an error that sits at the intersection of factual recall, mathematical derivation, and logical reasoning about transversality constraints. Claude distributes these across logical and factual while oss-120b consistently labels them factual. While per-problem classification is noisy, aggregated statistics is more reliable and offers valuable insights on the effect of RL on the error reduction. 63