Title: Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.13015v1

Published Time: Wed, 15 Jul 2026 12:03:13 GMT

Number of Pages: 11

Markdown Content:
# Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage 

# Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen 

University of Liechtenstein Vaduz, Liechtenstein stephan.fahrenkrog@uni.li 

# Aleksander Figiel 

TU Berlin Berlin, Germany a.figiel@tu-berlin.de 

# Darya Melnyk 

TU Berlin Berlin, Germany melnyk@tu-berlin.de 

# Tijana Milentijević 

TU Berlin Berlin, Germany tijana.milentijevic@tu-berlin.de 

# Stefan Schmid 

TU Berlin and Weizenbaum Institute Berlin, Germany stefan.schmid@tu-berlin.de 

## Abstract 

The stable marriage problem appears in many privacy-sensitive domains, for example in the National Resident Matching Pro-gram in the US. In such applications, preserving the privacy of users’ preference lists is essential to prevent strategic ma-nipulation, discourage misreporting, and comply with data protection regulations. In this work, we investigate privacy attacks on stable mar-riage algorithms. Assuming that the attacker (e.g., the hospi-tals) can repeatedly interact with the stable marriage algo-rithm, we demonstrate how such interactions can reveal pri-vate preferences of the non-malicious side (e.g., the residents). We show that the widely applied Gale-Shapley Matching Al-gorithm, where the proposers’ side is malicious, is vulnerable to privacy attacks and all honest agents’ preferences can be revealed. We further investigate which preference distribu-tions of the honest, non-malicious side are susceptible to privacy attacks and show that the Gale-Shapley Matching Algorithm where the honest side proposes can preserve pri-vacy in non-susceptible preference distributions. We extend our results to the decentralized setting and show that the attacker’s side can infer all preference orderings. In an ex-perimental evaluation, we test privacy attacks on synthetic and real-world data and show that real-world data is indeed susceptible to privacy attacks. This work underlines a need for new privacy-preserving stable marriage algorithms.  

> ©2026 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works. This research was supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG), Priority Programme SPP 2378 (ReNO-2), 2025–2029.

## 1 Introduction 

In many real-world applications, such as college admissions, donor-patient pairing, job markets, or residency assignment, it is required to compute a stable marriage , also referred to as the stable matching, that reflects the preferences of the participants. These preferences are typically expressed as ranked lists that contain sensitive information and should be kept private. A simple everyday example is assigning students to project topics: students rank the projects they would like to work on, while supervisors rank the students they would like to supervise. A matching is stable if there is no student and supervisor who would both rather work with each other than with their assigned partner. In order to compute a stable marriage, algorithms like the renowned Gale-Shapley algorithm let participants on one side propose to their top-ranked preference. If rejected, they iteratively propose to the next best alternative in their ranking. A particularly relevant and sensitive use case is the US Na-tional Resident Matching Program (NRMP), where medical graduates are matched to hospital residency programs. In this setting, applicants (graduates) are the more vulnerable side, while hospitals may have incentives to prefer candidates who rank them highly. For example, a clinic may avoid select-ing applicants who list it as a second or third choice, fearing those candidates will leave after training. If such programs could infer or access parts of the applicants’ preferences, they might manipulate the process to their advantage. This un-dermines both fairness and stability, and highlights the need for matching protocols that maintain not only correctness, but also the confidentiality of individual preferences. 

Our Contribution. We initiate the study of how much infor-mation one colluding side of the participants (the hospitals in the example) can infer about the preferences of the other side of the participants (the residents in the example). Note that we assume a strong collaboration on the colluding side, with 

> 1arXiv:2607.13015v1 [cs.DS] 14 Jul 2026 Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, Aleksander Figiel, Darya Melnyk, Tijana Milentijević, and Stefan Schmid

full information exchange. The challenge lies in choosing preferences for the dishonest (colluding) side in such a way that useful information about the preferences of the honest side can be extracted from each stable matching. Given a sin-gle stable matching, an attacker may infer some preference information such as one participant ranking another above someone else. However, in practice, many matching systems repeat the matching process over multiple rounds, allow-ing the change of one’s preferences between the rounds. We show that this poses a great risk to the confidentiality of pref-erence information. We analyze both the centralized and the decentralized settings. In the centralized case, a trusted third party aggregates all preferences and publicly announces a stable matching. In the decentralized setting, participants send each other matching proposals in a peer-to-peer fashion and thus determine their matching partner. In this work, we assume that each side has 𝑛 participants. We show that: 

• it is possible to infer the top preference of all honest participants within 𝑛 matching rounds, independent of the chosen algorithm, 

• it is possible to learn the full preference ordering of participants if all participants have the identical preferences, 

• there are algorithms that, under certain input pref-erences can prevent the attacker from revealing too much information, such as the Gale-Shapley match-ing algorithm where the honest side proposes, 

• the Gale-Shapley matching algorithm where the dis-honest side proposes, as well as the decentralized Gale-Shapley matching algorithms, are vulnerable to revealing the full preference ordering. We further design multiple strategies for the centralized and decentralized setting that aim to maximize what can be learned about the preferences and evaluate them empirically on synthetic and real-world data. 

Example. Consider the problem of pairing medical gradu-ates with residency programs. In the US, the pairing is done using the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP), also known as The Match. The algorithm used in the program is based on the traditional Gale-Shapley algorithm where applicants propose, delivering an applicant-optimal solution. Both applicants and clinics submit their preferences to the R3 system, which performs the pairing centrally. Now hospitals might prefer candidates who rank them highly, fearing that applicants who ranked them lower would leave after train-ing. Therefore, residency programs may have an incentive to learn applicants’ preferences and exploit this information to their advantage. As we demonstrate, by using different preference orderings and repeating the matching, the clin-ics are able to find out applicants’ preferences. Once the 

𝑎 : 1 ≻𝑎 2

𝑏 : 2 ≻𝑏 11: a ≻1 b2: a ≻2 b1: b ≻1 a2: b ≻2 a

Figure 1: A small example of how one can attack the preferences of agents 𝑎 and 𝑏 . The agents 1 and 2 are ranked highest by 𝑎 and 𝑏 , respectively (see top figure). If both attackers 1 and 2 lie about their preferences and set 𝑎 as their top preference, as visualized in the bottom left figure, then, in any stable matching, 𝑎 has to be matched to its first preference. Once we observe the matching for these preferences, and see that 𝑎 and 

1 are matched, we conclude 1 was the first preference of 𝑎 . Likewise, the attackers can both set 𝑏 as their first preference, as visualized in the bottom right figure, and learn that 2 is the first preference of 𝑏 . Since this example is so small, once we know the first preference, we also know the last. In two matching iterations, the attackers were able to learn all preferences. 

preferences are learned, the clinics can adjust their own pref-erences strategically to get a match in their favor. For a toy example on how the learning process for an attacker works see Figure 1. 

## 2 Related Work 

The stable marriage problem was formally introduced by Gale and Shapley in [ 1] and is today often referred to as the stable matching problem. Later variants of this problem, such as allowing partial preferences or having ties in the preference list, have been considered in [2]. Adversarial behavior in matching problems in form of strategic manipulation and misreporting of preferences has been studied extensively in the literature [ 2, 3 ]. [ 3] showed that the stable marriage is not always truthful, as agents could lie about their preferences in order to get a better matching partner. Nevertheless, [ 1 ] have shown the propos-ing side cannot gain anything by misreporting their pref-erences in the Gale-Shapley algorithm. A similar setting was considered in [ 4], where it is required that all agents submit complete (not partial) preference lists. They showed that an optimal manipulation strategy for women, under the man-optimal Gale–Shapley outcome, can be computed in polynomial time. Additionally, cases where agents from the proposing side can work jointly to obtain better partners 

> 2Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage

[ 5 ] and construct stable matching pairs even with errors in the input [ 6 ] were studied in the past. Also robustness mea-sures, with respect to small changes in preferences, related to stable matchings were examined in [ 7– 11 ]. The aforemen-tioned lying strategies assume the knowledge of preference orderings based on which a better pair for an agent can be obtained. [ 12 ] recently introduced the notion of Byzantine stable matching. The authors study the solvability of the sta-ble matching problem in the presence of malicious parties on both sides, examining how different communication models impose varying conditions for solvability. In contrast to the previous adversarial studies, our work focuses on inferring preference lists based on the pairs matched by an algorithm rather than manipulating the matching. Privacy aspects of stable marriage have also been consid-ered in the literature. A stable matching algorithm is consid-ered private if it computes a stable match while revealing no additional information to the adversary, beyond what can be inferred from the final matching itself and the preferences of the participants under the adversary’s control [ 13 ]. [ 13 ]proposed an algorithm where privacy is guaranteed if the majority of matching authorities are honest. Further work re-garding private matchings using secret sharing schemes [ 14 ]and homomorphic encryption [ 15 ] have been studied. Practi-cally implemented private stable matchings with thousands of agents include [15–20]. Research on multi-agent systems provides an additional perspective on private matching problems, particularly through work on strong collaboration among agents [ 21 –24 ], where agents can collaborate to reach their own goals. In this con-text, matchmaking in multi-agent systems refers to mecha-nisms that assign agents to other agents or clusters based on their interests and preferences [ 25 – 27 ]. Unlike our work, these scenarios are typically benign and assume all agents are honest and behave correctly. Note that in our work, be-nign agents do not collaborate, but we do assume strong collaboration among dishonest agents. The privacy attack considered in this paper was first intro-duced in the context of scheduling problems [ 28 ], where the original scheduling instance is solved and the privacy loss re-sulting from the publication of the final schedule is analyzed. To our best knowledge, we are the first to consider privacy attacks in stable marriage where only the final matching is revealed and the protocol itself does not expose intermediate state. 

## 3 Privacy Attacks 3.1 Model 

Stable marriage/matching. We consider a two-sided match-ing system with 2𝑛 participating agents, where every agent has to be matched to exactly one agent from the other side. The agents are divided into two groups, 𝐻 = {ℎ1, . . . , ℎ 𝑛 }

representing honest agents, and 𝐷 = {𝑑 1, . . . , 𝑑 𝑛 } denoting dishonest agents, such that |𝐻 | = |𝐷 | = 𝑛 . We assume that the dishonest agents share all information with each other and coordinate on how to set their preferences. For simplic-ity one may assume a single entity controls the dishonest agents. We assume that each agent in 𝑎 ∈ 𝐻 (resp. 𝐷 ) main-tains a strict, linear preference ordering 𝜋 𝑎 over the agents in 𝐷 (resp. 𝐻 ). In particular, for any pair of agents 𝑏, 𝑐 ∈ 𝐷 ,

𝑎 ∈ 𝐻 either strictly prefers agent 𝑏 over 𝑐 , denoted 𝑏 ≻𝑎 𝑐 ,or it strictly prefers agent 𝑐 over 𝑏 , denoted 𝑐 ≻𝑎 𝑏 . We rep-resent the ordering of agent 𝑎 as a list 𝜋 𝑎 = [1𝑎 , 2𝑎 , . . . , 𝑛 𝑎 ],where 1𝑎 is the agent that 𝑎 ranks the highest, and 𝑛 𝑎 is the agent 𝑎 ranks the lowest. We use Π𝐻 (resp. Π𝐷 ) to denote the matrix containing the preferences of all agents 𝑎 ∈ 𝐻 

(resp. 𝐷 ), specifically Π𝐷 [𝑑, 𝑖 ] = ℎ is the honest agent ℎ ∈ 𝐻 

that is 𝑖 th in the ranking of 𝑑 ∈ 𝐷 The goal is to find a sta-ble matching 𝑀 between 𝐻 and 𝐷 : a stable matching is a matching that does not contain any blocking matching pairs. A pair of agents (ℎ, 𝑑 ) ∈ 𝐻 × 𝐷 is called blocking, if both ℎ

and 𝑑 prefer to be matched to each other over their current matching partner. In the following we define two models in which we consider the stable matching problem. 

Centralized model. In the centralized setting, we assume that there is a trusted central server to which the agents submit their preference rankings. Upon receiving the pref-erences Π𝐻 and Π𝐷 , a matching algorithm is executed on the server to compute a stable matching 𝑀 . Afterward, the agents receive their matching partners from the server. In this work, we will assume that the applied algorithm to compute a stable matching is public, and thus known to all agents. 

Decentralized model. In the decentralized setting, we as-sume that the agents can communicate to each other in a peer-to-peer manner. The communication is assumed to be synchronous, i.e. all agents start executing a stable match-ing algorithms at the same time and proceed in rounds. We assume that all agents know the executed algorithm. 

Adversarial model. In this work, we differentiate between two types of agents. The set 𝐻 denotes a set of honest agents who always share their true preference lists with the central server in the centralized case. In the decentralized case, we assume that the honest agents do not change their preference lists during different algorithm runs, and that they always correctly follow the algorithm. The set 𝐷 denotes the set of 

dishonest (or malicious ) agents. These agents are not bound to sharing their true preferences with the central server or with other agents. Additionally, in the decentralized case, malicious agents may not follow the distributed algorithm correctly. 

> 3Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, Aleksander Figiel, Darya Melnyk, Tijana Milentijević, and Stefan Schmid

Centralized privacy attack. We assume that the goal of an attacker (who represents the malicious agents) is to violate the privacy of the honest agents. This means that the goal of the dishonest agents is to (at least partially) reveal the prefer-ence lists of the honest agents. In the centralized case, this can be done by repeatedly executing a matching algorithm with the identical preference matrix Π𝐻 , and adaptively changing dishonest preferences Π𝐷 . To compare different malicious at-tacks, we assume that one run of the matching algorithm by the server is atomic. An attack that finds out the preferences of the honest agents with fewer matching computations is thus favorable. 

Decentralized privacy attack. While the goal of a malicious adversary is the same as in the centralized case, we change the way to estimate the efficiency of an attack. In the de-centralized case, we count the number of rounds needed to reveal the preferences of the honest agents. If multiple algo-rithm executions are needed, we sum the number of rounds used in each execution. 

## 4 Theoretical Results 4.1 Gale-Shapley Matching Algorithms 

In this section, we will describe different variants of the classical Propose &Reject [ 1] algorithm that will be analyzed in the following sections. 

Propose &Reject - centralized. The algorithm is executed by a central authority that collects complete preference lists from all agents and outputs a stable matching. In particular, one side (noted as the proposers) iteratively proposes to agents on the other side according to the preference ordering, while each receiver tentatively accepts the most preferred proposal so far and rejects the rest. The process continues until no further proposals are made and the central authority outputs a stable matching. 

Propose &Reject - decentralized. This algorithm is a gen-eralization of the centralized algorithm, and it is executed in synchronous rounds. In the first round, the proposing side proposes to agents on the other side according to the preference ordering. Next, each receiver tentatively accepts the most preferred proposal so far and rejects the rest. The process proceeds in rounds and terminates when no new proposals are made, resulting in a stable matching. 

## 4.2 Algorithm-Independent Leakage 

In this section, we show privacy attacks that generalize to all matching algorithms. We start by proving that, independent of the choice of the preference matrix Π𝐻 , there exists an adversarial strategy that reveals the top preference of each honest agent. 

Lemma 1. Consider the centralized stable matching setting. Independent of the stable matching algorithm, it is always possible for the malicious side to learn the top preference of each agent in 𝐻 within 𝑛 iterations. 

Proof. Assume an adversarial strategy where, in the first iteration, every agent 𝑑 ∈ 𝐷 sets the first agent ℎ1 of 𝐻 as the top choice for every candidate. This way, any stable matching algorithm has to match ℎ1 with its top choice. If this was not the case, ℎ1 and its top preference would form a blocking pair. Similarly in iteration 𝑖 , the malicious agents place the 

𝑖 th agent in 𝐻 as their top alternative. After 𝑛 rounds the adversary knows the top preferences in of every ℎ ∈ 𝐻 . □

Next, we consider the case where all good agents have the identical preferences in Π𝐻 .

Lemma 2. If every row of Π𝐻 is the same, i.e., all good agents have the identical preferences, then there exists no stable matching algorithm that can hide Π𝐻 .

Proof. By [ 2 , 29 ], there exists a unique stable matching if agents of at least one side all have the identical preference list. Since the matching is unique, we choose a stable matching algorithm and prove that this algorithm cannot hide Π𝐻 . Con-sider therefore the Propose &Reject algorithm where the at-tacker proposes. The attacker can learn the whole preference matrix in 𝑛 iterations using the following strategy: Assume that there are 𝑛 honest agents with IDs ℎ1, ℎ 2, . . . , ℎ 𝑛 and all of them have the identical preference orderings. Let the 𝑛 ma-licious agents set their preferences in a Round-Robin manner for the next 𝑛 iterations, where each agent has the identical preference list. For example, they set ℎ1 ≻ ℎ2 ≻ ℎ3 ≻ · · · ≻ ℎ𝑛 

in the first iteration; ℎ2 ≻ ℎ3 ≻ . . . ℎ 𝑛 ≻ ℎ1 in the second iteration; ℎ𝑛 ≻ ℎ1 ≻ · · · ≻ ℎ𝑛 −1 in the last iteration. We refer to the corresponding attack as the Round-Robin attack .With this strategy, in each iteration, every honest agent will be paired with a different malicious agent that it has not been paired with in an earlier iteration. This happens, since all honest agents have the identical preference list and, in each execution of a matching algorithm, they will be proposed to by all malicious agents. For example, in iteration 

3, malicious agents have the preference list ℎ3 ≻ ℎ4 ≻ · · · ≻ 

ℎ𝑛 ≻ ℎ1 ≻ ℎ2. In this case, the agent ℎ3 will be proposed to first by all malicious agents and will pair with its highest preference. Similarly, agent ℎ4 would pair with its second hightest preference and so on. Note that the matching is different in every execution of a matching algorithm, because every honest agent has the identical preference list. Consider iteration 𝑘 of the presented attack strategy. As-sume agents ℎ𝑖 and 𝑑 𝑗 are matched. We know that 𝑑 𝑗 ranks 

ℎ𝑖 at position 𝑥 = (𝑖 + 𝑘 − 1) mod 𝑛 + 1 in this iteration. From the stability of the matching we can conclude that 

𝑑 𝑗 is in {1ℎ𝑖 , . . . , 𝑥 ℎ𝑖 }. Now after 𝑛 iterations of the attack 

> 4Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage

strategy, for every honest agent ℎ𝑖 , we have obtained the following information: for every 𝑦 ∈ [ 𝑛 ], ℎ𝑖 was matched with some 𝑑 𝑗 𝑦 in some iteration and it was determined that 

𝑑 𝑗 𝑦 is in {1ℎ𝑖 , . . . , 𝑦 ℎ𝑖 }. However, since ℎ𝑖 was matched to a different agent in each iteration we deduce that 𝑑 𝑗 𝑦 in fact corresponds to 𝑦 ℎ𝑖 of ℎ𝑖 . Consequently, this attack strategy learns all preferences. Note that the attack strategy does not assume beforehand that all honest agents’ preferences are identical, however, if they are, then it succeeds in learning them. □

Observation 1. The Round-Robin attack also learns the top preference of each agent. 

## 4.3 Analysis of centralized algorithms 

In this section, we analyze the privacy properties of the centralized stable marriage algorithms. We start by showing that there are special cases of Π𝐻 , where an algorithm can prevent an adversary from revealing too many preferences. 

Lemma 3. Assume that the top choice for each agent in 𝐻 is different. Then, there exists a stable matching algorithm, such that no adversarial strategy can learn anything beyond the first preference. 

Proof. If the top choices of agents in 𝐻 are different, a matching 𝑀 that maps the agents in 𝐻 with their top choices is always stable. Independent of the preferences in 𝐷 and the bottom 𝑛 − 1 preferences of agents in 𝐻 , an algorithm can always output the matching 𝑀 . This way, the malicious side cannot learn any more preferences beyond the top choices. 

□

Note that in Lemma 1 we showed that the top choices can always be learned independent of the algorithm. We now show that the above matrix Π𝐻 can be generalized: 

Corollary 1. Partition 𝐷 into disjoint sets 𝐷 1, ..., 𝐷 𝑘 , fur-ther partition 𝐻 into disjoint sets 𝐻 1, ..., 𝐻 𝑘 , such that |𝐷 𝑖 | =

|𝐻 𝑖 |. Define Π𝐻 such that all agents in 𝐻 𝑖 have 𝐷 𝑖 as their top preferences (the ordering of the preferences in 𝐷 𝑖 can vary among the agents in 𝐻 𝑖 ). Then, there exists a stable matching algorithm, such that no adversarial strategy can learn any-thing beyond the clusters, that is learn how agents in 𝐻 𝑖 order 

𝐷 \ 𝐷 𝑖 .

Next, we show that the Propose &Reject algorithm, where the dishonest side proposes, is vulnerable to privacy attacks. 

Theorem 1. Assume that the Propose &Reject algorithm, where the dishonest side proposes, is used as the matching algo-rithm. Then, there exists a privacy attack that learns everything in 𝑛 2 matching iterations. 

Proof. By Lemma 1, it is possible to learn the first prefer-ence of each agent in 𝑛 rounds. We use induction to show that the attacker can learn all preferences in Π𝐻 . The top prefer-ences that can be learned with Lemma 1 form the induction base. The induction step is performed for each honest agent 

ℎ separately. We assume that the attacker has learned the first 𝑖, 𝑖 ≥ 1 preferences of ℎ. To learn the preference (𝑖 + 1)ℎ ,the attacker can use the following preference matrix: put ℎ

in the last place of its first 𝑖 preferences {1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ }, and place ℎ as the top choice for all other malicious agents. To prove that (ℎ, (𝑖 + 1)ℎ ) will be matched, we need to show that no agent in {1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ } will propose to ℎ in the matching algorithm. Observe first that (𝑖 + 1)ℎ will form a matching pair with ℎ in the first round, since it is the highest ranked agent to propose to ℎ in this round. After this round, ℎ can only reject (𝑖 + 1)ℎ if it receives a proposal from an agent in {1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ }. Moreover, none of the agents in 

𝐷 \ { 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ } will propose to ℎ anymore. We will now show that, in the following rounds, all other agents will form a stable matching among themselves and therefore no agent in {1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ } will propose to ℎ. Assume by means of contraposition that an agent 𝑑 ∈ { 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 )ℎ }

proposes to their last preference ℎ. This means that the pre-vious 𝑛 − 1 proposals of this agent have been rejected. A proposal can only be rejected by an agent ℎ𝑖 ≠ ℎ if it accepts a proposal from another agent. That is, ℎ𝑖 is matched to one of the remaining 𝑛 −2 agents in 𝐷 (all agents excluding (𝑖 +1)ℎ

and 𝑑 ). Observe that there are only 𝑛 − 2 agents in 𝐷 that can make agents 𝐻 \ℎ reject proposals (or previously established matchings) from 𝑑 . Thus, there must exist at least one agent in 𝐻 \ ℎ that accepts a proposal from 𝑑 without rejecting it later. This is a contradiction to our previous assumption. This shows that ℎ will not receive any proposals after the first matching round. Therefore (ℎ, (𝑖 + 1)ℎ ) must form a pair in the output stable matching and thus be revealed to the attacker. □

We now turn our focus to centralized Propose &Reject algorithm where the honest side proposes and show that this algorithm can in fact preserve privacy in the previously discussed cases. 

Theorem 2. Assume that the Propose &Reject algorithm where the honest side proposes is used as the matching algo-rithm. This algorithm is privacy preserving with respect to Lemma 3 and Corollary 1. 

Proof. Consider the matrix in Lemma 3 first. In the first round of the Propose &Reject algorithm, all honest agents propose to their first preference in the list. By assumption, the first preference is different for every honest agent. Thus, every malicious node will receive exactly one proposal which it will accept in this round. Since every honest node has a matching partner, the algorithm terminates with a matching after one round. 

> 5Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, Aleksander Figiel, Darya Melnyk, Tijana Milentijević, and Stefan Schmid

Next, consider Π𝐻 from Corollary 1. Observe that the agents in 𝐻 𝑖 will propose to agents in 𝐷 𝑖 first, and the Propose &

Reject algorithm will establish a stable matching between these subsets. Thereafter, the agents in 𝐻 𝑖 will not propose anymore. This holds for every 𝑖 ∈ [ 𝑘 ]. The matching is sta-ble, because none of the agents in 𝐻 𝑖 will prefer any of the agents in 𝐷 \ 𝐷 𝑖 . □

## 4.4 Analysis of decentralized algorithms 

In this section, we show that the decentralized versions of both Propose &Reject algorithms are vulnerable to privacy attacks. For the analysis in the decentralized setting, we consider communication rounds within one iteration of the Propose &Reject algorithm used for sending proposals and rejecting them. 

Lemma 4. There is a malicious privacy attack that learns all preferences in the Propose &Reject algorithm, where the honest side initiates proposals. This attack takes 1 algorithm iteration with 2𝑛 communication rounds. 

Proof. If the honest agents are the proposers, malicious agents can strategically reject all incoming proposals. By observing the sequence of proposals they receive over 𝑛 

proposal rounds, the attacker can fully reconstruct the pref-erence orderings of all honest agents. Moreover, the attacker can prevent honest agents from obtaining a matching. □

Lemma 5. There is a malicious attack that learns all pref-erences in the Propose &Reject algorithm, where the malicious side initiates proposals. This attack takes 𝑛 (𝑛 − 1) algorithm iterations with at least two communication rounds in each iteration. 

Proof. Using the round-robin proposal scheme, by Lemma 1, each honest agent’s top choice is revealed within the first 𝑛 

iterations. Over the next 𝑛 (𝑛 − 2) iterations, the attacker can uncover all remaining preferences, revealing one per round. To reveal agent ℎ’s 𝑖 th preference 𝑖 ℎ , the malicious agents manipulate their rankings as follows: The agents in positions 

1ℎ through (𝑖 − 1)ℎ of ℎ place ℎ at the bottom of their pref-erence lists. All other malicious agents rank ℎ as their top choice and propose. As shown in the proof of Theorem 1, ℎ

will accept the proposal from 𝑖 ℎ . This allows the attacker to learn ℎ’s 𝑖 th choice. This process is repeated for each agent and each preference position, enabling complete recovery of all preferences within 𝑛 (𝑛 − 1) iterations. □

## 5 Simulations 

To complement our theoretical results we additionally per-formed simulations on both real-world as well as syntheti-cally generated preferences. Our main focus here will be the central Propose &Reject algorithm in which the honest side initiates the proposals. From Theorem 2 we know that if all first preferences of the honest agents are different, then we can not learn anything beyond the first preferences. How-ever, by Lemma 2 we know if all preferences are identical, then a Round-Robin attack learns all preferences in 𝑛 iter-ations. We aim to investigate experimentally the structural gap between the two results, and answer how much we can learn in the cases in-between, specifically also in the case of structured real-world preference data. We note that we have also simulated the case in which the dishonest agents initiate proposals to see if our algorithms learn faster in practice than what is guaranteed by Theorem 1, which unfortunately was not the case. In general, we learn only one preference per iteration and not significantly more information, unless in specific cases such as when all honest agents’ preferences are identical. For completeness, we describe what information we learn from a matching, as well as the strategies we utilize in more detail. Finally, we briefly evaluate different strategies for the de-centralized setting. As Lemma 4 shows, by simply rejecting all incoming proposals all preferences can be learned. How-ever,this will also result in an empty matching. We evaluate different strategies that try to learn the preferences while also computing a matching. 

## 5.1 Learning rules 

We initialize for every honest agent ℎ and a position 𝑥 in its preference with a set of possible dishonest agents that could occupy that position. Initially all these sets are 𝐷 . During the execution of our algorithms we remove agents from these sets if we learn any information. The goal is to reduce the size of each possibility set down to one agent, if possible. We say a preference of some honest agent at some position has been learned , if the corresponding possibility set contains only a single element. It may happen that at the end of our algorithms we still have more than one possibility per honest agent and position. To measure the gained information about the preferences we introduce an uncertainty metric which we define as follows: 

Íℎ∈𝐻,𝑥 ∈ [ 𝑛 ] (possibilities for preference 𝑥 of agent ℎ) − 𝑛 2

𝑛 3 − 𝑛 2

Consequently, the uncertainty ranges from 0, if all pref-erences were learned, to 1, in the case that no information on the preferences was obtained. We use the below learning rules to shrink the size of the possibility sets: 

5.1.1 General learning rule. Let Π𝐻 and Π𝐷 be preferences of the honest and dishonest agents, respectively, and 𝑀 astable matching under these preferences. 

> 6Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage

Let ℎ be any honest agent and let 𝑑 ∈ 𝐷 be the dishonest agent it was matched to in 𝑀 . Further, let 𝑃 be the set of dishonest agents (excluding 𝑑 ) that would prefer ℎ over their current partner in 𝑀 . From the stability property we infer that 𝑑 ≻ℎ 𝑝 for all 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 . This implies that 𝑑 cannot be in the bottom |𝑃 | preferences of ℎ. We thus remove 𝑑 from ℎ’s bottom most |𝑃 | possibility sets. 

5.1.2 Information propagation. Once we know there is only one possible position of agent 𝑑 ∈ 𝐷 in the preferences of agent ℎ ∈ 𝐻 then we fix that preference, by assigning the possibility set {𝑑 } at that position. Note that more involved propagation techniques are possible, e.g. based on similar combinatorial arguments. However, for simplicity we only use this one propagation rule for its simplicity and the ability to efficiently implement it. 

5.1.3 Attack strategies. For our experiments we utilized the following strategies for the dishonest agents: 

Random. Here we simply try 𝑛 2 random preference matri-ces for the attackers as a baseline to compare our strategies against. We report on average values obtained from 10 dif-ferent runs. 

Round-Robin. This is the strategy utilized in Lemma 2. That is, all dishonest agents initially set their preferences to ℎ1 ≻ · · · ≻ ℎ𝑛 . This preference order is then cycled in round-robin fashion in subsequent iterations. Recall that this strategy is guaranteed to always learn at least the first preferences of the honest agents. 

Brute-Force. Here the attackers simply try all possible pref-erences for the attack. This takes (𝑛 !)𝑛 many iterations, which we have found to be only computationally viable for 

𝑛 at most 4. 

Targeted-Propose. This strategy is based on the strategy described in Theorem 1, which is guaranteed to work if the dishonest agents propose. We now consider the setting where the honest agents propose. We adapt the strategy in the following ways: we try to first learn the first preferences of every agent, then the second preference of every agent and so on. In each iteration when we are trying to learn the 

𝑖 th preference of honest agent ℎ, as before, we try to prevent the dishonest agents 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 − 1)ℎ from matching with ℎ by assigning ℎ as their last preference, and the remaining ones assign ℎ as their first preference. If we have not determined the preferences 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 − 1)ℎ we then stop trying to learn more preferences for ℎ. Unfortunately, as the honest agents propose, we can not ensure that the agents 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 −1)ℎ will not be matched to ℎ. We try to mitigate this by assigning their top preferences to honest agents that also rank them highly. Specifically, we iterate over preference positions 𝑥 starting with 1 and ending at 𝑛 and for every honest agent ℎ′ ≠ ℎ,

Algorithm 1: Targeted-Propose Learn first preferences using Round-Robin 

for ℎ ∈ 𝐻 do for 𝑖 ← 1, . . . , 𝑛 do if 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 − 1)ℎ are not determined then break end 

𝐹 ← { 1ℎ, . . . , (𝑖 − 1)ℎ }

// Try to learn the 𝑖 ’th preference of ℎ

Π𝐷 [𝑑, 𝑘 ] ← ⊥ ∀𝑑 ∈ 𝐷, 𝑘 ∈ [ 𝑛 ]

for 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 do 

Π𝐷 [𝑓 ] ← [ ] // Empty list 

end for 𝑖 ′ ← 1, . . . , 𝑛 do for ℎ′ ∈ 𝐻 with ℎ′ ≠ ℎ do 

𝑓 ← ( 𝑖 ′)ℎ′

if 𝑓 is determined and in 𝐹 then 

append ℎ′ to Π𝐷 [𝑓 ]

end end end for 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 do while |Π𝐷 [𝑓 ]| < 𝑛 do 

append ⊥ to Π𝐷 [𝑓 ]

end end for 𝑑 ∈ 𝐷 \ 𝐹 do 

Π𝐷 [𝑑, 1] ← ℎ

end 

Replace ⊥’s in Π𝐷 randomly to obtain a valid preference ordering for every agent Submit preferences and apply learning rules to the resulting matching 

end end 

if we have determined the preference 𝑥 ℎ′

we assign ℎ′ at the highest available free position in 𝑥 ℎ ’s preferences. Recall, that agents that have each other as their first preference have to be matched in any stable matching. For completeness we give the pseudocode in Algorithm 1. 

## 5.2 Brute-force attacks for 𝑛 = 4

Firstly, we investigate how the different strategies perform by considering all possible 4 × 4 preference matrices of the honest agents. To reduce the number of possible instances we only consider non-isomorphic instances. For example,     

> 7Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, Aleksander Figiel, Darya Melnyk, Tijana Milentijević, and Stefan Schmid 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
> Uncertainty
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> CDF
> Random (n²)
> Round-Robin
> Targeted-Propose
> Brute-Force

Figure 2: Results for brute-forcing all possible prefer-ences for the honest agents using all possible prefer-ences for the dishonest agents. 

we can assume any permutation of the honest and dishonest agents without changing the problem. Therefore we only consider 4 × 4 preferences matrices for the honest agents where the entries in the first row are sorted, and the rows of the matrix are sorted lexicographically. This reduces the number of instances from 331,776 to 2,600. Note that within the Brute-Force strategy the same trick can not be performed and we still have to try all 331,776 preference matrices for the dishonest agents. Unfortunately, these were the largest instances we still could apply the Brute-Force strategy to in reasonable time. We summarize these results in Figure 2. It can be observed that the Random strategy with 𝑛 2 iterations appears to per-form similar to the Round-Robin strategy that only needs 

𝑛 rounds. Even Brute-Force is not able to learn many pref-erences, however Targeted-Propose is not much worse de-spite using only at most 𝑛 2 iterations. Lastly, the Round-Robin approach with 𝑛 iterations learns significantly less than Targeted-Propose. 

## 5.3 Synthetic data - entropy dissimilarity 

We define a new measure of similarities among the prefer-ences of the honest agents, namely the entropy dissimilarity 

as follows: Í𝑖 entropy in column 𝑖 𝑛 log 𝑛 

This way if all preferences are identical then dissimilarity is 0, and if they are all different, then dissimilarity is 1. We sam-ple matrices with a desired dissimilarity, by first sampling a random matrix and then doing random ranking swaps that change dissimilarity in the right direction. This way we are able to interpolate smoothly between matrices where all preferences are different and ones where they are all identical. This allows us to investigate the structural gap 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

> Entropy dissimilarity
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Uncertainty
> Random (n²)
> Round-Robin
> Targeted-Propose

Figure 3: Uncertainty for 64 × 64 preference matrices with varying dissimilarity. The error bars show the minimum and maximum among 50 samples. 

between Theorem 2 and Lemma 2. We measured the uncer-tainty after an attack with our learning strategies in Figure 3. The Random strategy with 𝑛 2 iterations appears to have high uncertainty for all dissimilarity values, especially for dissimilarity 1 where it has the highest uncertainty among the different strategies, meaning it was not always able to learn the first preferences. The Round-Robin strategy effi-ciently learns preferences only when dissimilarity is low, whereas the uncertainty of preferences after an attack with Targeted-Propose appears to correlate well with the dissimi-larity. However, note that the dissimilarity is not a perfect indicator; the first preferences could be all different, and the remaining preferences mostly identical, leading to low dissimilarity, but high uncertainty. 

## 5.4 Synthetic data - Mapel 

We utilized the Mapel dataset from [ 30 ]. This dataset contains 503 stable matching instances grouped into 15 categories, based on the statistical cultures they originate from. All in-stances have the same number of agents, that is 𝑛 = 100 . We take both preference matrices from each instance to obtain 1006 privacy attack instances. See Figure 4 for a visualiza-tion of the learned preferences using our Targeted-Propose approach. The following can be deduced from the data: for most instances there exists an agent whose top-75% or more preferences we can learn fully, and in at least half of the instances we learn at least the top-25% preferences of half of the agents. The results are therefore heavily skewed: a fraction of agents have preferences that are easier to learn compared to the majority, and a further fraction has prefer-ences that are difficult to learn much further beyond the first preference.      

> 8Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage 25
> 50
> 75
> malasym Norm-Mallows
> 25 50 75
> 25
> 50
> 75
> fame
> 25 50 75
> full dataset
> 10 0
> 10 1
> 10 2

Figure 4: Learned preference information for mapel datasets. The y-axes denote the agents, and the x-axis denotes the preferences. The colors indicate the size of the possible preference sets at the positions in the pref-erence matrices after applying the Targeted-Propose strategy. Three subgroups of data from the dataset have been selected for which we computed the element-wise median of the set sizes in the matrices, and additionally the median over all 1006 instances in the dataset was taken (bottom right). Before the aggregation with the median, the agents are sorted according to how much was learned for them. 

## 5.5 Real-world data - student/project allocation 

The availability of real-world matching data is unfortunately very limited. The PrefLib preference library [ 31 ] contains a single real-world dataset for a matching problem with preferences, which contains data from a student/project allo-cation problem at a university [ 32 ]. For 8 different academic years, around 31–51 students each year submitted a linear ordering over their top-5 rated projects, out of 56–155 avail-able projects. In this case, we assume the attackers are the project supervisors, wishing to learn the project preferences of the students. To fit this to our setting we set the remaining project preferences of the students randomly. Furthermore, as the number of students is smaller than the number of available projects, we considered different strategies for en-suring the number of participants on each side is the same: duplicating one student many times, or duplicating all stu-dents roughly the same number of times, or, finally, adding new dummy students with random preferences. However, there was no large difference in the results in any of these approaches, thus we report on the case where we duplicated 12345

> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 12345
> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 35
> 12345
> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 12345
> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 10 0
> 10 1

Figure 5: Learned student preferences for the aca-demic years 2007 to 2010 (left to right) using Targeted-Propose. The students are on the y-axis and the prefer-ences are on the x-axis, starting with top preferences on the left side. The colors indicate the size of the pref-erence possibility sets. 

one student many times. Using our Targeted-Propose strat-egy we can determine the top 5 preferences for most students. For a visualization of the learned preferences see Figure 5. Therein we depict the four project years where we learned the fewest preferences. For the last three project years we learn all top-5 preferences, and for another 3 years we only do not learn 1–4 preferences. As we are only interested in the top-5 preferences it is also sufficient to use 5𝑛 attack iterations. Our Round-Robin approach was only able to learn the top-1 preferences and in a few cases also the second preference, but not much more. 

## 5.6 Decentralized Setting 

We simulate a decentralized setting in which the honest agents send proposals to the dishonest agents. We assume the agents send proposals as in the Propose &Reject algorithm, that is, in order of their preferences. The dishonest agents therefore learn from each incoming proposal one preference from an honest agents ranking. Furthermore, we assume the proposals are sent in synchronous rounds, where in one round all honest agents that are unmatched each send one proposal to an dishonest agent, then the dishonest agents decide which proposals to accept. The goal for the dishonest agents is therefore to behave strategically in a way that maximizes the number of proposals sent by the honest agents. As shown in Lemma 4, if the dishonest agents simply reject all incoming proposals, then they learn all preferences. However, this also results in an empty matching, which means that               

> 9Stephan A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, Aleksander Figiel, Darya Melnyk, Tijana Milentijević, and Stefan Schmid 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Entropy dissimilarity
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> matched
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Entropy dissimilarity
> 0.0
> 0.1
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> 1.0
> learned fraction
> One-Accept One-Free-Accept All-Accept Accept-Last-Round Accept-Last-Proposal

Figure 6: Simulation results for 64 × 64 preference matrices with varying dissimilarity in the decentralized setting. The error bars show the minimum and maximum among 50 samples. Matched refers to the number of matched agents after applying a strategy, whereas the learned fraction is the fraction of revealed honest agents’ preferences. 

the honest agents can realize, that the dishonest agents did not follow the Propose&Reject algorithm. We empirically evaluate different strategies for the dis-honest agents to accept or reject the incoming proposals in an attempt to learn as much information as possible while also matching as many agents as possible. We consider the following strategies: 

One-Accept. in any given round an arbitrarily chosen pro-posal is taken and the two agents, the one being proposed to and the one proposing, are matched. If the agent that was proposed to was already matched, then it rejects its previous matched partner. 

One-Free-Accept: here in any round we choose arbitrarily one proposal to an unmatched dishonest agent and match it with the proposing honest agent. 

All-Accept. all proposals are accepted by the dishonest agents. Note that if an agent gets two or more proposals in one round, then it will accept all of them, but also immedi-ately reject all but one of them. 

Accept-Last-Round. the dishonest agents reject all propos-als in the first 𝑛 − 1 rounds, and in the final round accept all proposals. This is similar to the strategy used in Lemma 4, but tries to find a matching in the last round. 

Accept-Last-Proposal. here the dishonest agents keep track of which proposals were already sent by the honest agents. An unmatched dishonest agent accepts a proposal only if all other unmatched honest agents proposed to it, that is, this is the last proposal the agent may still receive, so it accepts it. The results for these strategies are presented in Figure 6. The only strategy among these that always resulted in a complete matching was All-Accept, unfortunately this was also the strategy that generally learned the least. The One-Accept and One-Free-Accept appear to match at least half of the agents, but learn only around half of the preferences. Accepting in the last round learns all preferences similar to the strategy in Lemma 4, but does the number of matched agents varies greatly — all agents are matched only if the last preferences are all different. Accepting the last proposal appears to generally learn many preferences, however a small fraction of unmatched agents remains. 

## 6 Conclusion 

In this work, we introduced the notion of privacy attacks for the stable marriage problem. We showed that stable mar-riage algorithms from the literature are vulnerable to these attacks. Our practical evaluation demonstrated that also on real-world datasets we can often learn top-20% of the prefer-ences, even in the theoretically challenging settings. Our work shows that there is a need for new privacy-preserving stable marriage algorithms to make sure that the private preferences of the participants are protected. It will be interesting in future work to contribute to devising such algorithms, also answering the question: given a preference matrix of the honest participants, how much information would the best-possible matching algorithm have to reveal in this case? Another interesting direction for future work is to focus on attacks in which different subsets of agents partici-pate across repeated executions. In many real-world markets, such as job markets, school choice or organ exchange, par-ticipants may enter and leave over time. Understanding how dynamic participation affects privacy leakage is an impor-tant next step. Finally, while existing privacy-preserving 

> 10

Privacy Attacks on Stable Marriage 

techniques can in principle protect preferences, their com-putational cost and practical feasibility for large matching markets require further investigation. 

## References 

[1] D. Gale and L. S. Shapley, “College admissions and the stability of marriage,” The American mathematical monthly , vol. 69, no. 1, pp. 9–15, 1962. [2] D. Gusfield and R. W. Irving, The stable marriage problem: structure and algorithms . Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 1989. [3] A. E. Roth, “The economics of matching: Stability and incentives,” 

Mathematics of operations research , vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 617–628, 1982. [4] C.-P. Teo, J. Sethuraman, and W.-P. Tan, “Gale-shapley stable marriage problem revisited: Strategic issues and applications,” Management Science , vol. 47, no. 9, pp. 1252–1267, 2001. [5] C.-C. Huang, “Cheating by men in the gale-shapley stable matching algorithm,” in European Symposium on Algorithms . Springer, 2006, pp. 418–431. [6] T. Mai and V. V. Vazirani, “Finding Stable Matchings That Are Robust to Errors in the Input,” in 26th Annual European Symposium on Algo-rithms (ESA 2018) , ser. Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs), Y. Azar, H. Bast, and G. Herman, Eds., vol. 112. Dagstuhl, Germany: Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, 2018, pp. 60:1–60:11. [7] K. Boehmer and N. Boehmer, “Worst-and average-case robustness of stable matchings:(counting) complexity and experiments,” in ECAI 2024 . IOS Press, 2024, pp. 3469–3476. [8] J. Chen, P. Skowron, and M. Sorge, “Matchings under preferences: Strength of stability and tradeoffs,” ACM Trans. Econ. Comput. , vol. 9, no. 4, Oct. 2021. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3485000 [9] J. Drummond and C. Boutilier, “Elicitation and approximately stable matching with partial preferences.” in IJCAI , 2013, pp. 97–105. [10] H. Aziz, P. Biró, T. Fleiner, S. Gaspers, R. de Haan, N. Mattei, and B. Rastegari, “Stable matching with uncertain pairwise preferences,” in Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiA-gent Systems , ser. AAMAS ’17. Richland, SC: International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2017, p. 344–352. [11] H. Aziz, P. Biró, S. Gaspers, R. de Haan, N. Mattei, and B. Rastegari, “Stable matching with uncertain linear preferences,” Algorithmica ,vol. 82, no. 5, pp. 1410–1433, 2020. [12] A. Constantinescu, M. Dufay, D. Ghinea, and R. Wattenhofer, “Byzantine stable matching,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/2502.05889 [13] P. Golle, “A private stable matching algorithm,” in Financial Cryptog-raphy and Data Security , G. Di Crescenzo and A. Rubin, Eds. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2006, pp. 65–80. [14] M. Franklin, M. Gondree, and P. Mohassel, “Improved efficiency for pri-vate stable matching,” in Cryptographers’ Track at the RSA Conference .Springer, 2007, pp. 163–177. [15] T. Teruya and J. Sakuma, “Round-efficient private stable matching from additive homomorphic encryption,” in Information Security: 16th International Conference, ISC 2013, Dallas, Texas, November 13-15, 2013, Proceedings . Springer, 2015, pp. 69–86. [16] J. Doerner, D. Evans, and a. shelat, “Secure stable matching at scale,” in Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’16. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2016, p. 1602–1613. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978373 [17] M. Keller and P. Scholl, “Efficient, oblivious data structures for mpc,” in International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security . Springer, 2014, pp. 506–525. [18] M. Blanton, A. Steele, and M. Alisagari, “Data-oblivious graph algo-rithms for secure computation and outsourcing,” in Proceedings of the 8th ACM SIGSAC symposium on Information, computer and communi-cations security , 2013, pp. 207–218. [19] S. Zahur, X. Wang, M. Raykova, A. Gascón, J. Doerner, D. Evans, and J. Katz, “Revisiting square-root oram: efficient random access in multi-party computation,” in 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2016, pp. 218–234. [20] M. S. Riazi, E. M. Songhori, A.-R. Sadeghi, T. Schneider, and F. Koushan-far, “Toward practical secure stable matching,” Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies , 2017. [21] M. Wooldridge, An introduction to multiagent systems . John wiley & sons, 2009. [22] C. Sioutis and J. Tweedale, “Agent cooperation and collaboration,” in 

International Conference on Knowledge-Based and Intelligent Informa-tion and Engineering Systems . Springer, 2006, pp. 464–471. [23] X. Zhang, X. Dong, Y. Wang, D. Zhang, and F. Cao, “A survey of multi-ai agent collaboration: Theories, technologies and applications,” in Proceedings of the 2nd Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area International Conference on Digital Economy and Artificial Intelligence , ser. DEAI ’25. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2025, p. 1875–1881. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3745238.3745531 [24] Y. Lashkari, M. Metral, and P. Maes, “Collaborative interface agents,” 

Readings in agents , pp. 111–116, 1997. [25] L. N. Foner, “Yenta: A multi-agent, referral-based matchmaking sys-tem,” in Proceedings of the first international conference on Autonomous agents , 1997, pp. 301–307. [26] Z. Zhang and C. Zhang, “An improvement to matchmaking algorithms for middle agents,” in Proceedings of the First International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems: Part 3 , ser. AAMAS ’02. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2002, p. 1340–1347. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/545056.545129 [27] D. Kuokka, L. Harada et al. , “Matchmaking for information agents,” in 

IJCAI (1) , 1995, pp. 672–678. [28] S. A. Fahrenkrog-Petersen, A. Senderovich, A. Tichauer, A. K. Tutak, J. C. Beck, and M. Weidlich, “Privacy attacks on schedule-driven data,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , vol. 37, no. 10, 2023, pp. 11 972–11 979. [29] S. Clark, “The uniqueness of stable matchings,” Contributions in Theo-retical Economics , vol. 6, no. 1, 2006. [30] N. Boehmer, K. Heeger, and S. Szufa, “A map of diverse synthetic stable roommates instances,” in Proceedings of the 2023 International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems , ser. AAMAS ’23. Richland, SC: International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2023, p. 1003–1011. [31] N. Mattei and T. Walsh, “Preflib: A library of preference data 

http://preflib.org ,” in Proceedings of the 3rd International Confer-ence on Algorithmic Decision Theory (ADT 2013) , ser. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence. Springer, 2013. [32] A. Kwanashie, R. W. Irving, D. F. Manlove, and C. T. S. Sng, “Profile-based optimal matchings in the student/project allocation problem,” in 

Combinatorial Algorithms . Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2015, pp. 213–225. 11